This is an action for damages in the amount of $1,339.93, exclusive of interest,
attorney fees and costs by virtue of which this Court has jurisdiction. The court has jurisdiction over the subject matter. The defendant entered into the agreement between the parties, which is the subject matter of this lawsuit, in said county and/or is a
resident of said county. On or about the date set forth therein Defendant entered into certain written Promissory Notes with Plaintiff, copies of which are attached hereto and made a part hereof as Exhibit "13". The Plaintiff originally loaned money to Defendant, which was subject to interest and finance charges. There is due and owing to Plaintiff the principal amount of $1,339.93, in addition to interest of $1,122.23, collection costs in the amount of $618.91, and late fees of $663.31; for a total due of $3,744.56. A copy of the Account Statement is attached hereto and made a part hereof as Exhibit "A". Defendant failed to make payments pursuant to the terms of the Promissory Notes and therefore is in default. Plaintiff has made demand for payment of such account, but Defendant has refused
Plaintiffs demands. The Promissory Notes are federally backed loans subject to Title 20 U.S.C. Chapter 28, ยง1091a. Such loans have no statute of limitation pursuant to this title. Plaintiff has performed all conditions precedent to the contract. WHEREFORE, Plaintiff demands Judgment against Defendant in the sum of $1,339.93 together with costs, interest, a reasonable attorney fee and such other relief as the Court may deem just and proper. This is a communication from a debt collector. Appliuble Lew NI sums advanced under this note are drawn from a fund created under Part E of Title IV oil the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended, hereinafter called the Act, and are subject to the Act and the Federal Regulations issued under the Act. The terms of this note shall be interpreted in acurdanee with the Act and Federal Regulations issued Linde( the Act. The
terms of this rite shall be interpreted in accordance with the Act and Federal Regulations, copies of which are to be kept by the Lending Institution. Procedures for Retailing Deferment or Cancellation I understand that in order to receive a deferment or cencellation, I must request the deferment or cancellation In writing Iran the Lending
Institution, and must submit to the Lending Institution any documentation required by the Lending Institution to prove that !qualify for the deferment or cancellation. I further understand that if I am eligible for deferment ce cancellation under Article VI through X, I am responsible for submitting the appropriate requests on time. I further understand that I may lose my deferment and cancellation benefits if I fail to file my request on time. Interest shall accrue from the beginning of the repayment peeled and shall be al the ANNUAL PERCENTAGE RATE OF FIVE PERCENT (5%) interest on the unpaid balance eecepl that no interest shall accrue during any determent period described in subparagraph VI (1), (A), (8), (C), and (D). III. REPAYMENT I promise to repay the principal and the interest which accrues on It to the.lending Institution over a period beginning 6 months atter the date I cease to be at least a half-time student at an institution of higher education, or of a comparable institution outside the United States approved for this purpose by the United States Secretary of Education (hereinafter called the Secretary), and ending, unless paragraphs applies, 10 years later. I promise to repay the principal and interest over thatourse of the repayment period In equal monthly, bimonthly or quarterly installments as determined by the Lending Institution, at its sole discretion. I understand that if my monthly payment for all the loans made to me by the Lending Institution is not a multiple of $5, the Lending Institution may round that payment to the next highest debar. amount that Notwithstanding paragraph upon my written request, repayment may be made in graduated installments in accordance with a schedule approved by the Secretary. 