Filing # 43551636 E-Filed 07/05/2016 03:03:12 PM
IN THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE EIGHTH
JUDICIAL CIRCUIT, IN AND FOR
ALACHUA COUNTY, FLORIDA
CASE NO. 01-2016-CA-2369
DIV.: J
LEE-FORD TRITT,
Plaintiff,
vs.
UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA,
Defendant,
COMPLAINT
Plaintiff LEE-FORD TRITT SUES Defendant UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA and alleges:
1.                                                                                                   This cause of action for damages is filed against named Defendant for an amount
in excess of the minimal $15,000 jurisdictional limit of this Court.
2.                                                                                                   Venue is proper in the Eighth Judicial Circuit, Alachua County, Florida, pursuant
to the Parties' stipulation in the Settlement and General Release Agreement, which serves as the
basis for the cause of action of this Complaint. See Settlement and General Release Agreement
("Settlement Agreement), at paragraph 21, attached hereto as Plaintiffs Exhibit A.
3.                                                                                                   Plaintiff is a tenured Professor of Law at the University of Florida Fredric G. Levin
College of Law in Gainesville, Florida.
4.                                                                                                   Defendant is a publicly funded member of the State University System of Florida.
5.                                                                                                   Plaintiff filed a civil cause  of action for damages against Defendant and
Defendant's former law school dean, Robert H, Jerry, II, on or about March 3, 2014, alleging Fraud
in the Inducement and Breach of Contract.
"2016 CA 002369" 43551636 Filed at Alachua County Clerk 07/05/2016 03:03:25 PM EDT

Tritt, Lee-ford vs. University of Florida
Complaint
Page 2 of 6
6.                                                                                                    The Parties resolved their dispute during mediation approximately one year after
Plaintiff filed his Complaint, and this resolution was memorialized in the aforementioned
Settlement Agreement on or about May 27, 2015.
7.                                                                                                    In this legally binding Settlement Agreement, Plaintiff agreed to file a Stipulation
for Dismissal with Prejudice to effectuate the dismissal of his 2014 lawsuit against Defendant and
Mr. Jerry, while still reserving jurisdiction with the Court to enforce the terms of the Settlement
Agreement. See Settlement Agreement, at paragraphs 2, 21.
8.                                                                                                    In return, Defendant agreed to the terms and conditions in the Settlement
Agreement which included the obligation to:
a)  approve a one-semester, off-campus fully paid sabbatical for Plaintiff, to be exercised
by December 31, 2016. See Settlement Agreement, at paragraph 9;
b) pay $10,000 stipend to Plaintiff as Director of the College of Law's Center for Estate
Planning by increasing the Center's next annual budget by $10,000. See Settlement
Agreement, at paragraph 13;
c)  refrain from engaging in or making any disparaging or defamatory comments or
statements regarding Plaintiff or his employment, notwithstanding Defendant's
requisite compliance with Florida's public records laws. See Settlement Agreement, at
paragraph 17.
9.                                                                                                    At all times material hereto, Plaintiff has performed all conditions and obligations
as required in the manner specified in the Settlement Agreement.
10.                                                                                                   Defendant has failed and refused, and continues to fail and refuse, to perform the
conditions and obligations required by Defendant to perform as specified in the Settlement
Agreement.

Tritt, Lee-ford vs. University of Florida
Complaint
Page 3 of 6
11.                                                                                                  Specifically, prior to the May 27, 2015 Settlement Agreement, Plaintiff received a
visiting professorship position from Boston University's College of Law, which was approved by
UF's College of Law.
12.                                                                                                  Pursuant to the Settlement Agreement with Defendant and a separate assignment
agreement between Defendant and Boston University, Plaintiff would receive his full UF
compensation (for salary and fringe benefits) from Defendant for his semester-long paid sabbatical
as well as his full UF compensation from Boston University, both for the fall 2015 semester.
13.                                                                                                  In exchange for assigning Plaintiff to Boston University to teach as a visiting
professor, Defendant would receive a one-time lump sum payment of $102,717.16 from Boston
University to compensate Defendant for Plaintiff's salary and benefits ($81,716.12 as salary and
$21,001.04 in benefits). See Agreement Between The University of Florida Levin College of Law
and Boston University ("Assignment Agreement"), attached hereto as Plaintiff's Exhibit B.
Defendant would in turn endorse the assignment compensation check to Plaintiff.
14.                                                                                                  In direct response to Defendant's request to designate Plaintiff as a Boston
University employee during his fall 2015 visiting professorship, Boston University inserted the
following language into the Assignment Agreement:
It is understood that the University of Florida Levin College of Law is
responsible for all of Professor Tritt's usual fringe benefits included in the
$102,717.16 charge during this period.                                                               Professor Tritt will not be
considered for any purpose as an employee of Boston University. Professor
Tritt will remain an employee of the University of Florida, Levin College
of Law and shall be covered in and under its insurance and benefits
program.
See Id.

Tritt, Lee-ford vs. University of Florida
Complaint
Page 4 of 6
15.                                                                                                  In reliance of the Settlement and Assignment Agreements, Plaintiff made plans to
relocate to Boston for the fall 2015 semester, which entailed securing housing in the Boston area
as well as leasing his Gainesville home for the same period of time.
16.                                                                                                  In June 2015, Plaintiff was informed by an administrative employee of Defendant
that a UF professor may not concurrently be on paid sabbatical leave while simultaneously holding
an assigned visiting professorship because such an action would result in receipt of double
compensation, which is allegedly prohibited by university policy. University of Florida Sabbatical
Guidelines Rules 5(h-j), however, clearly and without ambiguity permits such compensation. See
UF Sabbatical Guidelines attached hereto as Plaintiff's Exhibit C. Upon information and belief,
the University has compensated other professors in accordance with this policy, in the past and
without regard to any prohibition against double compensation.  Indeed, the receipt of double
compensation was expressly agreed to by the University at the time the parties entered into the
Settlement Agreement.
17.                                                                                                  While Plaintiff was teaching at Boston University in September 2015, Defendant
generated a Faculty Assignment Report for Plaintiff to execute, officially designating him as a
visiting professor and not on paid sabbatical leave for the fall 2015 semester. Plaintiff was then
informed by Defendant's College of Law Associate Academic Dean that the designation would
not be changed, nor would Plaintiff receive the previously agreed upon double compensation.
18.                                                                                                  This  concurrent  double  compensation  arrangement  is  exactly  what  was
contemplated by the Parties during mediation and memorialized in paragraph nine of the
Settlement Agreement.

Tritt, Lee-ford vs. University of Florida
Complaint
Page 5 of 6
19.                                                                                                  As of the date of filing this Complaint, Defendant has materially breached the
Settlement Agreement by failing to pay Plaintiff either:
a) Boston University's $102,717.16 assignment compensation check; or
b) the                                                                                               $10,000 stipend as Director of the College of Law's Center for Estate
Planning.
20.                                                                                                  In addition, Defendant materially breached the Settlement Agreement by making
disparaging comments about Plaintiff to Boston University administrators and others in direct
violation of the Settlement Agreement. See Settlement Agreement, at paragraph 17.
21.                                                                                                  Plaintiff brings this cause of action before this Court as a direct result of Plaintiffs
failure to fulfill its contractual obligations under the subject Settlement Agreement, thereby
resulting in damages to Plaintiff.
22.                                                                                                  As a direct consequence of Defendant's contractual breaches of the subject
Settlement Agreement, Plaintiff has been economically damaged, including damage for the
sabbatical assignment compensation from Boston University and the stipend from the Center for
Estate Planning.
23.                                                                                                  Plaintiff has been obliged to retain the services of the undersigned attorneys to
prosecute this action on his behalf and has agreed to pay them a reasonable fee.
WHEREFORE, Plaintiff demands judgment against Defendant for compensatory damages,
costs, pre judgment interest, attorney's fees pursuant to statute and contract, and such other and
further relief as this Court may deem appropriate.
Plaintiff further demands trial by jury.
