This is an action for damages in excess of $15,000.
2.                                                                                                      The Plaintiff is a resident of Alachua County. Florida.
3.                                                                                                      The Defendant is a State University located in Alachua County, Florida.
4.                                                                                                      Venue is proper in Alachua County because the conduct which forms the basis for this action took
place in Alachua County, Florida.
                                                                                                        GENERAL ALLEGATIONS
5.                                                                                                      Plaintiff is sole owner of Edutech Solutions, LLC. (hereinafter "Edutech")
6.                                                                                                      Defendant University of Florida offered a work agreement (hereinafter "scope of work") to
Edutech to provide ten deliverables to the University of Florida, College of Education in the form of
reports, research, and proposed articulation agreements . The Defendant offered to pay $6.000 per
deliverable to Edutech if completed by June 30, 2013. for a total fee of $60,000.
7.                                                                                                      Plaintiff accepted Defendant's offer above on behalf of Edutech, and commenced work for
Defendant in January 2013.
it

8.                                                                                                              A true and correct copy of the Scope of Work is attached hereto as Exhibit "A".
9.                                                                                                              Edutech's work agreement with Defendant University of Florida was authored, developed and
managed by Dan McCoy, senior director of E-Learning, Technology and Creative Services at the College
of Education. Dan McCoy received Plaintiffs invoices for payment processing.
10.                                                                                                             The Defendant paid Edutech for two deliverables based on invoices submitted to the College of
Education in the amount of $12,000.
11.                                                                                                             Commencing in February, 2013, Plaintiff began disclosing protected information under Florida's
"whistleblower statute", Section                                                                                112.3187, to supervisory officials at the University of Florida about
possible illegal conduct, prohibited conflicts of interest, and other prohibited actions by certain employees
or agents of Defendant, including Dan McCoy (see Exhibit "B" below).
12.                                                                                                             On June 30, 2013, Plaintiff, on behalf of Edutech, submitted the remaining eight deliverables to the
University of Florida, College of Education and subsequently sent an invoice for $48,000, which has yet to
be paid.
13.                                                                                                             On or about August 24, 2013, Plaintiff disclosed protected information to the State of Florida
Commission on Ethics about possible illegal conduct, prohibited conflicts of interest, and other prohibited
actions by certain employees or agents of Defendant University of Florida, including Dan McCoy and
College of Education Assistant Dean Torn Dana.
14.                                                                                                             A true and correct copy of the Ethics Complaint submitted by Plaintiff to the State of Florida
Commission on Ethics, is attached as Exhibit "B".
15.                                                                                                             On or about September 2, 2013 a copy of the Ethics Complaint in (14) above was submitted to
several officers of the University of Florida, including the President, the Provost, the General Counsel, the
University's Inspector General, the Vice President of Public Relations, and the Dean of the College of
Education.
16.                                                                                                             Based on the allegations of the Ethics Complaint, the Defendant demoted Dan McCoy and his
supervisor, Associate Dean Tom Dana, insofar as they were removed by the Defendant from contracting
or procurement for the Defendant pending the outcome of an Ethics investigation.
17.                                                                                                             On September 20, 2013, the Gainesville Sun quoted a University representative as saying that
pending review by the Ethics Commission, Dan McCoy and Tom Dana had been prohibited from "any
kind of involvement in College of Education or OF procurement. They will not be involved in contracting
or making purchases." A true and correct copy of an article in the Friday, September 20, 2013 edition of
the Gainesville Sun is attached as Exhibit "C".

18.                                                                                                            As a result of the demotion of McCoy and Dana, Plaintiff and Plaintiffs counsel were directed to
the University of Florida's Office of the General Counsel to resolve the payment on Edutech's outstanding
invoice.
19.                                                                                                            Defendant University of Florida, through its Office of the General Counsel, repeatedly told the
Plaintiff and Plaintiff's counsel that the Defendant's position was that the Defendant had not received
enough information to determine whether Defendant would pay Edutech the invoiced amount of $48,000.
Counsel for Defendant requested additional documentation from Plaintiff and said that Defendant could
not make a determination until Counsel for Defendant had conferred with Dan McCoy.
16.                                                                                                            Plaintiff and Plaintiff's counsel met with and had communications with attorneys for the
Defendant multiple times in 2013 and 2014, and did not received a definitive answer as to whether or not
Defendant would pay EduTech Solutions for the $48,000 invoice, until a February 7, 2014 meeting.
17.                                                                                                            The last communication between Plaintiff and Plaintiff's counsel with an attorney for the
University of Florida was at a face to face meeting at the University of Florida on February 7, 2014. At
that meeting, Defendant's counsel indicated that she had finally had an opportunity to confer with "her
client" Dan McCoy. Based on Dan McCoy's false assertion that no agreement ever existed
between the College of Education and Edutech, Defendant's counsel announced to Plaintiff and
Plaintiffs counsel, at the face to face meeting on February 7, 2014, that the University had
decided not to pay Plaintiffs invoice.
18. A true and correct copy of the email sent to Counsel for Defendants just prior to the February 7, 2014
meeting is attached as Exhibit "D".
19. The February 7, 2014 announcement by Defendant's counsel at the meeting with Plaintiff and
Plaintiff's counsel amounted to an actual or constructive discharge of the Plaintiff by the Defendant, and
constitute an adverse personnel action against the Plaintiff prohibited by the Whistleblower Statute, as the
adverse action was taken against the Plaintiff by the Defendant because of, or in retaliation for, the prior
protected disclosures made by the Plaintiff.
COUNT FOR VIOLATION OF "WHISTLEBLOWER" STATUTE
(Florida Statutes §§112.3187)
Plaintiff realleges and incorporates the allegations set forth in paragraphs                                   1-19 above as if set
forth fully verbatim herein and further alleges:
20.                                                                                                            Plaintiff Tom Griffin is an "employee" as defined by the statute, who contracts for wages or other
remuneration with Edutech Solutions LLC, an independent Contractor.

21. Edutech Solutions LLC, is an "independent contractor", as defined by the statute, which entered into
a contract or provider agreement with Defendant University of Florida.
22. Commencing in February, 2013, Plaintiff employee began disclosing protected information in the form
of written, emailed complaints to Associate College of Education Dean Tom Dana and other supervisory
officials at the University of Florida, to report conduct or suspected conduct undertaken by employees or
agents of the Defendant which constituted either a violation of law that created and presented a
substantial and specific danger to the public's welfare, or constituted gross mismanagement, malfeasence,
misfeasence, gross waste of public funds, or gross neglect of duty.
23.                                                                                                         On or about August 24, 2013, Plaintiff employee disclosed by written, signed complaint to the
State of Florida Commission on Ethics, conduct or suspected conduct undertaken by employees or agents
of the Defendant which constituted either a violation of law that created and presented a substantial and
specific danger to the public's welfare, or which constituted gross mismanagement, malfeasence.
misfeasence, gross waste of public funds, or gross neglect of duty.
24.                                                                                                         Subsequent to making protected disclosures, Defendant has
a)                                                                                                          harmed Plaintiff by improperly withholding pay from Edutech, and
b)                                                                                                          discharged Plaintiff employee in violation of 112.3187(4).
25.                                                                                                         Plaintiff employee's disclosures were not made in bad faith or for a wrongful purpose, and did not
                                                                                                            occur after an agency's personnel action against Plaintiff employee.
26.                                                                                                         Defendant's conduct has caused Plaintiff employee to suffer damages.
27.                                                                                                         The adverse action set forth in Paragraph                                                            19 above was taken against the Plaintiff by the
Defendant because of, or in retaliation for, the prior protected disclosures made by the Plaintiff.
WHEREFORE, Plaintiff demands damages against Defendant for violation of Florida's "Whistleblower
Act" (Section                                                                                               112.3187, Florida Statutes) including, but not limited to, all relief available under Section
112.3187                                                                                                    (9), Florida Statutes, including costs and attorney's fees, and such other relief this Court deems
just and proper, and demands a trial by jury.
The foregoing is true and correct and of personal knowledge. I understand that I am
swearing or affirming under oath to the truthfulness of the claims made in this petition and that
the punishment for knowingly making a false statement includes fines and/or imprisonment.
THE UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA, COLLEGE OF EDUCATION
Whereas the University of Florida. College of Education (COL) seeks to enhance its online
learning platforms and expand and integrate its online virtual education programs. and
Whereas Edutech Solutions EEC (ESL), has expertise in intellectual property. virtual
education, education policy analysis. revenue models. business plan development.
interinstitutional collaboration structures. program manaaement, strategic analysis, and market
analysis.
Commission on Ethics
From January to June of this year, Tom Griffin consulted with UF's College of Education to
consider ways to build a virtual academy at UF for accelerated high school students in
Florida.  Mr. Griffin has learned that Utrinsic LLC may be doing business illegally with the
College of Education to develop and produce courses for the newly approved Institute for
Online Learning, in violation of Florida's Code of Ethics for Public Officers and Employees.
The Code prohibits public employees from diverting agency-related business to
themselves for private gain.
Utrinsic LLC is a private company in Florida which officially incorporated on March 6.
2013,                                                                                           (Exhibit 7) and has four managing members: Matthew Hintze (Utrinsic CEO), a
former UF professor and former owner of TutoringZone, and three current College of
Education officers:  Senior Director Daniel McCoy (also President of Utrinsic), Mark
Dinsmore, and Jason Arnold. (Id., see also Exhibit 1) On June                                   13, 2013. Associate
Dean Tom Dana, Mr. McCoy's immediate supervisor at the College of Education. signed,
reviewed and approved Utrinsic's UF vendor application which references a renewable,
annual contract between the College and Utrinsic as of May                                      1. 2013. (Exhibit 8) Mr.
Griffin's UF public records request found no information about Utrinsic being subjected to a
competitive bid process.
According to the Utrinsic business plan submitted to Dean Dana on February 22, 2013, Mr.
Hintze placed a value of $59,393,144 on Utrinsic, despite Utrinsic having no investors, no
employees, and no valuable intellectual property or assets.                                     (Exhibit 4, p.                                                                41)                      The
operating agreement Mr. Hintze sent to Mr. Griffin on February 10. 2013 lists Mr. Hintze as
owning a 15% equity share in Utrinsic. Messrs. McCoy and Dinsmore, are listed as owning
a                                                                                               14% share. and Mr. Arnold is listed with a 5% share of the company.           (Exhibit 3, p. B-1) If
Mr. Hintze's calculations are correct, Messrs. Hintze, McCoy and Dinsmore increased their
worth $8 - $9 million immediately upon incorporation. Mr. Hintze's valuation of Utrinsic is
entirely derived from the company's anticipation, using insider connections at the University
of Florida, of diverting millions of dollars in Florida Education Finance Program funds to
Utrinsic.  Mr Hintze has taught Venture Finance at the Warrington School of Business at
UF.  This summer. he was a UF adjunct faculty member teaching high schoolers in UF's
"Young Entrepreneurs for Leadership and Sustainability" program.                                (Exhibit 9)
Utrinsic's vendor application, submitted by Mr. Hintze and approved by Dean Dana, states
that Utrinsic is conducting "activities including, but not limited to, instructional design,

course development and production of online courses for the Online Institute at UF."
(Exhibit 8) Utrinsic is currently leasing office space from Innovation Hub at the University
of Florida, according to manager Gayle Dykeman, and will be moving, in six weeks into a
space provided for Utrinsic at the College of Education.
Mr. Griffin believes the leadership of Utrinsic has taken steps to conceal its conflict of
interest with the University. On May                                                                1. 2013. Mr. Hintze gave false information to UF on
Utrinsic's vendor application by denying any former employment with the University.                 (Id.)
However. UF personnel records show Mr. Hintze has held different jobs with UF since
1997, including: visiting lecturer, pre-doctoral fellow, student assistant, graduate assistant.
and graduate research assistant.                                                                    (Exhibit 9) When he applied for the adjunct faculty
position a month later, Mr. Hintze did include his former UF employment as a finance
professor on his resume. (Id.)  His resume indicates he founded Utrinsic in 2011, despite
the March 6, 2013 incorporation date recorded with the Florida Department of State.                 (Id.,
see also Exhibit 7) His resume also indicates Mr. Hintze's professional experience as a
consultant for the College of Education since 2012, even though a UF public records
request provided no such evidence. (Id.) Mr. Hintze is currently a defendant in an
adversary proceeding in personal bankruptcy for making alleged misrepresentations to
multiple creditors. In re Hintze, Case No.                                                          12-10462-KKS (U.S. Bankruptcy Court, N.D.
Fla.                                                                                                2012)
Despite his key role in Mr. Griffin's allegations of corrupt and illegal behavior. Mr. Hintze
ultimately may not be held legally accountable under the Code of Ethics. The Code applies
to candidates, lobbyists, and officers or employees of public agencies like UF. and would
probably not apply to Mr. Hintze for falsely presenting himself as a College of Education
consultant. Mr. Griffin's complaint singles out Mr. McCoy, Senior Director of E-Learning,
Technology, and Creative Services at the College of Education, and a principal managing
member of Utrinsic.  Mr. McCoy's official duties include the procurement of contractual
services for the College. According to his biographic description at the College's website,
Mr. McCoy is "currently coordinating efforts in e-learning, software development,
communications and business development for the College of Education." (Exhibit 1)
On October 23, 2012, Mr. McCoy's wife submitted an approved invoice to Dean Dana for
services performed for her husband's department at the College of Education. Her
website, Egensteinermedia.com, lists her husband's department at the College of
Education. E-learning, Technology and Creative Services (ETC), as a past client.
(Appendix A)  Mr. McCoy's involvement in procuring services for the College of Education
from either Utrinsic or his wife's company would violate state law. as it is illegal for a public

university official to procure, directly or indirectly, contractual services for his own agency
from any business entity of which the official or his spouse has a material interest.
On February 21, 2013, Matthew Hintze and Daniel McCoy used confidential information
from a legal memorandum prepared for UF's General Counsel by Mr. Griffin and Mr.
Griffin's attorney, to lobby at the state capitol for their personal benefit.                       (Exhibit 5; see
E-mail from Griffin to McCoy and Dana, February 22, 2013, Composite Exhibit 6, p.
1)                                                                                                  It is generally unlawful for a public employee to use information obtained in the course of
his official duties for personal gain, if the information is not readily available to the public.
Purporting to represent UF, Messrs. McCoy and Hintze travelled together to Tallahassee
on February 21st and lobbied Kathy Mizereck, Staff Director for the House Education
Committee, for the proposed legislation based on confidential information in the legal
memorandum.  The confidential legal memorandum concerned UF's ability to claim public
funding for a virtual education program. The proposed legislation, never approved by UF.
would have increased funds for the Utrinsic project. (Id.)
Prior to his lobbying trip. Mr. McCoy admitted to Mr. Griffin and others that UF Provost Joe
Glover had "ordered" him not to lobby at the capitol without the express permission of Jane
Adams, Vice President of University Relations. and President Bernie Machen. Mr. McCoy
falsely told College of Education leaders at a February                                             18. 2013 meeting that he had been
invited to join Mr. Hintze for a confirmed meeting with House Speaker Wetherford that
week, when in fact, there was no such meeting (Id.). Mr. McCoy did not obtain approval
from Ms. Adams or President Machen to lobby for the proposed legislation.
Mr. Griffin alleges that a constant flow of College of Education information. not available to
the public, was disclosed by Mr. McCoy to Mr. Hintze for the personal gain of both.
Specifically, information about what courses would be offered in coming years was
provided by Mr. McCoy to Mr. Hintze.  In an e-mail from Mr. Hintze dated January 9, 2013,
Mr. Hintze makes financial projections based on future course projections received from
Mr. McCoy. (Appendix B) Unpublished information about future course offerings offers
Mr. Hintze a huge advantage over any outside concern which might wish to compete for
business with the College of Education.
Mr. Griffin is filing this complaint with the Florida Ethics Commission to protect the public,
and to distance himself and two College of Education employees, John Donaldson and
Aaron Thomas, from any illegal actions undertaken by Utrinsic. The three were part of the
original Utrinsic working group led by Senior Director Mr. McCoy, before the illegal
intentions of the company leadership to divert public funds to itself were revealed. The

Utrinsic working group was originally tasked by Mr. McCoy to create a legitimate 'spin-off.
company through UF's Office of Technology and Licensing. However, Mr. McCoy did not
obtain the President and the Chair of the University's Board of Trustee's required approval
before becoming a managing member of Utrinsic.  The Utrinsic business plan was
organized and edited by Mr. McCoy in his official position at the College of Education,
using College resources, personnel, and meeting space.
On January 5, 2013, Mr. Griffin sent an email to the Utrinsic working group and his private
attorney inquiring about the legality of UF contracting with Utrinsic to provide services to a
proposed virtual academy at UF's laboratory school.                                                 (Exhibit                                                     2). Mr. Griffin insisted that
Mr. McCoy schedule. as soon as possible. a meeting with the UF General Counsel's office
for guidance.
On February 10, 2013, Mr. Hintze e-mailed an offer of equity in Utrinsic to Messrs. McCoy.
Dinsmore, Arnold. Griffin. Thomas, and Donaldson. At the scheduled February 20.                     2013
meeting. the General Counsel directly advised Mr. McCoy not to procure contractual
services from a private company to create online courses which UF could produce
in-house.  The meeting was also attended by Mr. McCoy, the Dean of the College of
Education, Dean Dana, and an Assistant General Counsel (by speakerphone).
On February 22, 2013. Mr. Griffin e-mailed Mr. McCoy and Dean Dana to refuse Utrinsic's
equity offer, citing a conflict of interest with Mr. Griffin's consulting work for the College of
Education.  On February 24. 2013, College of Education officer Aaron Thomas e-mailed
his refusal.  On February 26,                                                                       2011, College of Education officer John Donaldson e-mailed
his refusal, citing conflict of interest concerns.                                                  (Composite Exhibit 6) Their e-mails
refusing equity in Utrinsic are included in this complaint.                                         (Id.) On March 6.                                            2013,
Gainesville CPA Marc Schnoll submitted Utrinsic's Articles of Incorporation to the Florida
Department of State. and listed Messrs. Hintze, McCoy. Dinsmore and Arnold as
managing members.

MEMORANDUM OF LAW IN SUPPORT OF ETHICS COMPLAINT
Daniel McCoy, based on the facts set forth above, has violated the following
provisions of Florida law:
Violation of Florida Statute 112.3185(6)
Section                                                                                          112.3185                   (6), Florida Statutes, provides
112.3185. Additional standards for state agency employees
(6) An agency employee acting in an official capacity may not directly or indirectly
procure contractual services for his or her own agency from any business entity
of which a relative is an officer, partner, director, or proprietor or in which the
officer or employee or his or her spouse or child, or any combination of them, has
a material interest.
On June 13, 2013, Associate Dean for the College of Education. Thomas Dana, signed,
reviewed, and approved Utrinsic LLC's University of Florida Vendor Application submitted
to the UF purchasing office on May 1. 2013 by Utrinsic's principal managing member.
Matthew Hintze.   From March 6. 2013 to the present, Daniel McCoy has been an equity
shareholder and managing member of Utrinsic. LLC, Mr. McCoy's current employment as
as Senior Director of E-learning, Technology and Creative Services (ETC) for the UF
College of Education, predates his becoming a managing member of Utrinsic. Dean Dana
is Mr. McCoy's direct supervisor at the College of Education, and has been deeply
involved in the Utrinsic project from its inception.
Utrinsic's approved vendor application references a one year contract between Utrinsic
and the College of Education, beginning May                                                      1, 2013 and ending April   30,                               2014,
renewable by agreement of both parties and describes services being performed by
Utrinsic as "activities including, but not limited to. instructional design course development
and production of online courses for the Online Institute at UF." Utrinsic is also providing
"administrative, marketing and operational consulting for UF." The application states that
"course development, design and delivery will be in partnership with the College of
Education, relevant colleges and departments and the Office of the Provost as well as the
Executive Director of the Online Institute."
With the assistance and approval of Dean Dana. Mr. McCoy has directly or indirectly

procured contractual services for the College of Education from Utrinsic, a business entity
of which Mr. McCoy has a managing and material interest.  Mr. McCoy is involved in the
procurement process at the College of Education and participates in decisions awarding
contracts to College vendors. "Procurement of contractual services is described in
Section                                                                                          112.3185   (2) as "decision, approval, disapproval, recommendation. preparation of
any part of a purchase request. influencing the content of any specification or procurement
standard, rendering of advice, investigation, or auditing or in any other advisory capacity...
Dean Dana's approval of Utrinsic's vendor application qualifies as a prohibited
procurement activity.   Dean Dana was part of the Utrinsic working group prior to the
company's incorporation, and received all Utrinsic Google Group communications.
including e-mails from College of Education employees refusing equity in Utrinsic.
Complainant e-mailed Dean Dana the Utrinsic business plan. organized and edited by Mr.
McCoy, two months before Dean Dana approved the Utrinsic vendor application. Dean
Dana was aware of Mr.McCoy's activist role and use of College resources in forming
Utrinsic prior to that company submitting a vendor application, and was at key meetings
concerning Utrinsic.  He was present at the February 20. 2013 meeting. in which the UF
General Counsel advised Mr. McCoy not to procure contractual services from a private
company to produce online courses which UF could produce in-house.  Mr. McCoys direct
or indirect procurement of contractual services for the College of Education from Utrinsic is
in violation of Section                                                                          112.3185   (6).
Dean Dana also received at least one invoice in October. 2012. for contractual services
between Mr. McCoy's ETC department at the College of Education and an LLC owned
entirely by Mr. McCoy's wife, Eva Egensteiner, in violation of the spouse provision of
112.3185                                                                                         (6).
Violation of Florida Statute 112.313(7)(a)
McCoy's conduct violates Florida Statute                                                         112.313    (7)                                                                       (a).  That section reads as
follows:
(7) Conflicting employment or contractual relationship.--
(a) No public officer or employee of an agency shall have or hold any employment
or contractual relationship with any business entity or any agency which is
subject to the regulation of, or is doing business with, an agency of which he or
she is an officer or employee, excluding those organizations and their officers

who, when acting in their official capacity, enter into or negotiate a collective
bargaining contract with the state or any municipality, county, or other political
subdivision of the state; nor shall an officer or employee of an agency have or
hold any employment or contractual relationship that will create a continuing or
frequently recurring conflict between his or her private interests and the
performance of his or her public duties or that would impede the full and faithful
discharge of his or her public duties.
Section                                                                                         112.313                                                              (12) provides several exemptions from violations of Subsection   (7).
Under the facts of this case, the only possible exemption that could apply is
112.313                                                                                         (12)                                                                 (h), which provides:
(h) The transaction is made pursuant to s.                                                      1004.22 or s.                                                        1004.23 and is specifically
approved by the president and the chair of the university board of trustees. The chair of the
university board of trustees shall submit to the Governor and the Legislature by March          1 of
each year a report of the transactions approved pursuant to this paragraph during the
preceding year.
Section                                                                                         1004.23 allows for an exemption in cases when the state university
licenses. leases, assigns, or otherwise gives written consent to any person, firm, or
corporation for the manufacture or use on a royalty basis or for other consideration.
However, Mr. McCoy did not obtain the President and the Chair of the University's Board of
Trustee's approval under Section                                                                112.312                                                              (12)                                                             (h)  prior to becoming a managing member
of Utrinsic on March 6,                                                                         2013.  See generally CEO 98-4, "Water Management District
Employee Teaching Course at State University Where District Contracts With University
and He Authorizes Such Contracts" (March 5.                                                     1998), in which a conflict of interest existed
where cooperative agreements had been obtained pursuant to s.                                   1004.23. but the
approval and listing requirement under s.                                                       112.312                                                              (12)                                                             (h) had not been met.
As noted above, Mr. McCoy is an equity shareholder and managing member of
Utrinsic, LLC, a company which purports to have a contract with the OF College of
Education.  Mr. McCoy's position with the University and his equity and managerial interest
with Utrinsic violates                                                                          (7)                                                                  (a) on several different grounds:
Mr. McCoy doing business with his own agency and his recurring conflict of
interest as College of Education officer and President of Utrinsic
There are two separate parts to (7)(a).  The first part prohibits "employment or a

contractual relationship with a business entity which is subject to the regulation of. or is
doing business with, an agency of which he or she is an officer or employee.- The second
part prohibits an officer or employee of an agency from holding "any employment or
contractual relationship that will create a continuing or frequently recurring conflict between
his or her private interests and the performance of his or her public duties or that would
impede the full and faithful discharge of his or her public duties".  Mr. McCoy's dual
positions as an officer of the College of Education and his equity and managerial interest
in Utrinsic violates both of these parts of (7)(a).
Mr. McCoy's equity interest in Utrinsic while employed in his current position with the
College of Education is similar to the situation in which this Commission found a violation
of both parts of (7)(a) in CEO                                                                    11-14 "District School Board Cash and Investments Manager
Marketing Computer Workbook Tool" (September 14, 2011).   In that opinion, a school
board employee sought the Commission's advice regarding his enhancement and
marketing of computer tools derived from, and other computer tools not derived from, tools
accessed in his public capacity. The employee had received a proposal from a treasury
advisory firm (TAF) offering to pay the employee for use of an enhanced computer
workbook, based on a per-user (per-their-clients) charge.   The school district did not do
any business with the TAF at that time, but the owners of the TAF owned a second firm that
ran a bond fund for government entities, and the District owned shares of that fund.
The employee identified three possible scenarios under which the transaction with
the TAF might occur.  In scenario one, the school board would enter into an agreement with
the employee where the board would retain ownership of the workbook and the employee
would own the programming contained within the workbook. A second agreement would
be made between the Board/District and the TAF, giving the TAF exclusive rights to
market the workbook.
In scenario two, the employee would purchase the rights to the workbook from the
Board for an agreed price. The employee would continue to use and enhance the
workbook as needed to fulfill his duties as an employee of the Board. Then. the employee
would enter into an agreement with the TAF giving the TAF exclusive rights to market the
workbook, with the employee keeping any revenues generated from the sale of the
exclusive rights.
In scenario three, the employee would create a unique product on his own time and
at his expense. and would own the intellectual property rights, with the knowledge and
approval of the school superintendent and the school board.

As to scenario one. this Commission found that a prohibited conflict of interest
would be created under the first part of Section                                                     1 12.313                                                                  (7)                                               (a). The employee's agreement
with the school board that outlines the Board's ownership of the workbook and the
employee's ownership of the programming contained within the workbook would amount to
the employee holding employment or a contractual relationship with a business entity that
would be doing business with the public agency with which he was employed. The board
also found that scenario one would create a prohibited conflict under the second part of
Section                                                                                              112.313                                                                   (7)                                               (a) because it would be difficult to determine whether the ideas from the
enhancements he would market privately came from using information gained from his
public position, and because his development and private marketing of enhancements to
the workbook would impede the full and faithful discharge of his public duties, since he
could develop these enhancements in his public capacity and thereby further improve the
functions of his public agency. The Commission cited two prior opinions in support of its
findings, CEO 92-18                                                                                  (clerk of court employees developing software for private sale to other
clerk's offices) and CEO 89-26 (employee of judicial circuit marketing enhancements to
software developed as part of his public position). in which it found prohibited conflicts.
For similar reasons, the Commission found a prohibited conflict with regard to
scenario two.  The Commission found no prohibited conflict with regard to scenario three,
provided that the employee did not market it to his own school board, other than under any
applicable exemption of Section                                                                      112.313                                                                   (12). and provided that he did not market it to
businesses which are doing business with his School Board/District. Insofar as the
College of Education is analogous to the School Board, Mr. McCoy cannot do business
with the College of Education under Section                                                          112.313                                                                   (7)                                               (a) unless a                                                                112.313   (12)
exemption applied.
Similarly, Mr. McCoy's conduct in participating in the procurement process involving
a purported contract with Utrinsic. a company in which he holds equity and is a managing
member, violates the first part of (7)(a) because it creates a conflict of interest between his
public duties and his private interest in Utrinsic.  His conduct would also create a prohibited
conflict under the second part of (7)(a) in that it creates a continuing or frequently recurring
conflict between his private interests and the performance of his  public duties or that would
impede the full and faithful discharge of his public duties. It is well-established that this part
of (7)(a) establishes an objective standard which requires an examination of the nature and
extent of the public officer's duties together with a review of his private employment to
determine whether the two are compatible, separate and distinct or whether they coincide
to create a situation which "tempts dishonor." Zerweck v. State Commission on Ethics, 409
So.2d 57 (Fla. 4'h D.C.A.                                                                            1982).

Mr. McCoy competing with his own agency
Another case analogous to Mr. McCoy's situation is Velez v. Commission on Ethics,
State,                                                                                         739 So.2d 686 (Fla.   5'h D.C.A.   1999).  Ms. Velez was a full-time employee of the
Hernando County Health Department (Health Department). working as a sanitation and
safety specialist. She was also self-employed on a part-time basis as a certified water
operator, consulting with local water systems regarding compliance with Department of
Environmental Protection (DEP) regulations. The Fifth District affirmed the Commission's
ruling that Ms. Velez engaged in a prohibited conflict of interest by also working part-time
as a self-employed certified water operator. consulting with local water systems regarding
compliance with Department of Environmental Protection (DEP) regulations.  The Court
found that the Commission determined that Ms. Velez competed with her employer by
engaging in a private enterprise that included water sampling services.
Similarly. Mr. McCoy would be competing with the University by virtue of his
managing interest in Utrinsic. a company which seeks to provide services such as
developing and producing courses. which the University could produce in-house at a much
lower cost.
CEO 87-71. "Department of State Employees Contracting to Provide Services for
Entities Doing Business with Department and to Provide Services which Department
Could Perform' (September 16. 1987) also shows Mr. McCoy's conflict of interest by virtue
of competing with one's own agency.  In that opinion, the Commission found that where an
employee in the Bureau of Archaeological Research sought to enter into a contract for
professional services with a business entity when the Bureau would be capable of
providing the same services under a similar contractual relationship, the private
employment would be deemed to impede the full and faithful discharge of the employee's
public duties and constitute a prohibited conflict of interest under Section                   112.313               (7).
In 87-71. an employee within the Bureau of Archaeological Research was asked to
serve as a private consultant on a project concerning the construction of a replica of the
Nina, a ship in the Columbus fleet. While the Bureau was not solicited to work on the
project,  the Commission found that it would be capable of performing such work and may
wish to do so.
In finding that the employee's proposed private consultancy violated                           (7)                   (a). the
Commission stated:
In our view, this situation.requires us to consider the second portion of

Section                                                                                            112.313                                       (7)       (a), Florida Statutes. which prohibits a public employee from
having or holding an employment or contractual relationship that will create a
continuing or frequently recurring conflict between his private interests and the
performance of his public duties or that would impede the full and faithful discharge
of his public duties. We believe that a conflict of interest would be created were the
employee to accept employment in a private capacity which his agency could
handle in an official capacity. We are of the opinion that when these individuals
accepted their public positions, they accepted the responsibilities of carrying out
their public duties; in so doing, they are required to sacrifice those private
opportunities which would conflict with their public duties. Id.
Another analogous situation is presented in CEO 79-47, 'Tourist Research
Administrator with Department of Commerce Consulting with Foreign Government to
Prepare Tourism Marketing Strategy" (July                                                          19. 1979).  In that opinion, the Commission
found a violation of (7)(a) when the Tourist Research Administrator with the State
Department of Commerce consults privately with the Bahamas Ministry of Tourism.
This Commission found that in spite of assurances that the state and the Bahamas
will benefit mutually from the project, the Bahamas nevertheless competes with the state to
some degree for tourist dollars. Thus, the Commission found that if the employee were to
participate privately in the proposed consulting project, he would be improperly competing
with his agency for services which the agency could perform.
Also, this Commission found that the state, through its Department of Commerce, is
in a position to offer its aid to the Bahamas. For a state employee to benefit privately from
a situation in which his state could participate officially suggests the possibility of or
potentiality for an employee's diverting agency-related business to himself for private gain,
in violation of s.                                                                                 112.313                                       (6) and   (8), Florida Statutes.  This is analogous to the detrimental
effect on the University of Florida by Mr. McCoy's interest in Utrinsic.
Mr McCoy's conflict in exercising public administrative functions over his own
company
Two opinions of this Commission finding conflicts of interest involving Department
of Children and Families Public Assistance Specialists who make entitlement
determinations for food stamps (CEO 97-8, 97-15), while at first glance may seem factually
dissimilar to this situation, nevertheless raise another ground for a finding of "subject to
regulation" in the first part, or an ongoing or frequently recurring conflict of interest in Mr.
McCoy's case under the second part of Section (7)(a). In these two cases. this

Commission found a conflict of interest when DCF employees were employed or sought
employment in grocery or convenience stores which accepted food stamps. The
Commission noted that part of these DCF employees' duties were to report instances of
food stamp fraud, and their desire to maintain employment at these stores might conflict
with their duties to report food stamp abuse.
Mr. McCoy's situation is directly analogous in that part of his duties as a Director of
E-learning, Technology and Creative Services for the College of Education involves
exercising regulatory authority over contractors such as Utrinsic.  It is obvious that his
position with Utrinsic may affect his administrative duties over such matters as deciding
whether to cancel or renew Utrinsic's contract, or deter him from taking appropriate action
should Utrinsic violate any statutes, regulations. or University policies and thus create a
situation which "tempts dishonor."  See Zerrweck, supra.
Violation of Florida Statute 112.313(8)
Section                                                                                           112.313                                                                                (8), Florida Statutes, provides:
(8) Disclosure or use of certain information.--A current or former public officer,
employee of an agency, or local government attorney may not disclose or use
information not available to members of the general public and gained by reason
of his or her official position, except for information relating exclusively to
governmental practices, for his or her personal gain or benefit or for the personal
gain or benefit of any other person or business entity.
The threshold for a violation of Subsection (8) is not high.  See generally CEO
92-18. April 24:                                                                                  1992 (employees in the office of a clerk of the court who are involved in
computer programming and the design and modification of computer software used in the
clerk's office may not form a private consulting business to design and market program
enhancements to other clerks of the court, even though the enhancements were not
developed as a part of their public employment: employees could violate Section
112.313                                                                                           (8), Florida Statutes, if they were to use their public position to gain proprietary
information and then sell its modification to other persons): CEO                                 89-26, June                                                                            14, 1989
(employee of a judicial circuit who was employed to supervise the development of a
computer software program used by the circuit may not participate in a private business
which proposes to market and develop enhancements to the program; program is
available to other judicial circuits in Florida but is not available to the general public, and

the private entity could gain access to the software only through the employee. who
therefore would violate Section                                                               112.313                                             (8), Florida Statutes, if he were to use his public
position to give the private entity access to the software program).
Overall, the facts of this case indicate that Mr. McCoy. acting in his official capacity.
authorized a constant flow of non-public information disclosures to Mr. Hintze. for the
personal gain of Mr. McCoy and Mr. Hintze.
Purporting to represent UF, Mr. McCoy and Mr. Hintze disclosed contents of a
non-public legal memorandum to lobby for the benefit of Mr. McCoy and Mr. Hintze
As set forth in the background above, a confidential internal memorandum of law
and proposed legislation related to the memorandum was prepared for the University
General Counsel by the complainant, at the behest of Mr. McCoy and Mr. Thomas,  The
contents of the  memorandum, which concerned legal interpretations of the rights of the
University with regard to FEFP funding for its laboratory school, were discussed at a
meeting held in the Dean's office at the College of Education on February                     18. 2013.  Mr.
McCoy attended this meeting by speakerphone.  Other than Mr. McCoy and the
complainant, only Dean Good, Dean Dana. Dr. Pemberton, and P.K. Yonge Director
Hayes attended this meeting and were privy to the memorandum, with the understanding
that it was confidential and intended for the General Counsel's consideration. Mr. McCoy
presented a false statement to those present that Mr. Hintze had a confirmed meeting with
House Speaker Weatherford regarding the Online University Advisory Board the week of
February 18th to justify the pair making a trip together to Tallahassee. Mr. Hintze and Mr.
McCoy admitted to complainant, just before travelling to Tallahassee, that they knew there
was no such meeting scheduled with Speaker Weatherford.
Complainant and Dr. Pemberton advised against Mr. McCoy lobbying for the
proposed legislation at the February                                                          18th meeting.  Prior to the Tallahassee trip. Mr.
McCoy also admitted to John Donaldson. complainant, and others. that the University
Provost had "ordered" Mr. McCoy not to lobby for UF in Tallahassee without the consent of
Jane Adams and President Machen. The memorandum of law and the proposed
legislation were internal memos for consideration by the College leadership, the General
Counsel's office. and not available to members of the general public. No meeting with Jane
Adams was ever held regarding the proposed legislation.
On February 20th. a meeting with the General Counsel was attended by the
complainant. Mr. McCoy. Dean Good, Dean Dana, and the Assistant General Counsel (by
speakerphone) in which the contents of the memorandum were discussed. At that

meeting. the General Counsel directly advised Mr. McCoy not to procure contractual
services from a private company to produce online courses which UF could produce
in-house.
On the evening of February 20th, Mr. McCoy went to complainant's house to ask
him to accompany Mr. Hintze and Mr. McCoy on a lobbying trip to Tallahassee the next
day.  Raul Merlo, a friend visiting the complainant, witnessed the conversation.
Complainant said he would give Mr. McCoy an answer in the morning on February 21st,
which was negative.  Mr. McCoy and Mr. Hintze called complainant back later in the
morning of February 21st and demanded that complainant provide them with detailed
information and an extra copy of the legal memorandum for their lobbying trip to
Tallahassee.  Complainant refused, citing the fact that Mr. McCoy was specifically
instructed by the Provost not to lobby.
Mr. McCoy and Mr. Hintze went to Tallahassee and met with the House Education
Committee legislative staff director where they discussed the contents of the internal
memorandum and lobbied for the proposed legislation for additional funding.  Mr. McCoy
and Mr. Hintze admitted to the complainant of disclosing the confidential information in the
legal memorandum to the staff director and others, and lobbying for the proposed
legislation not approved by UF.  The confidential information was only acquired by way of
Mr. McCoy's official position, and used in an attempt to further the personal financial
interests of Messrs. McCoy and Hintze,
Mr. McCoy offered non-public information to Mr. Hintze to schedule College of
Education courses for the personal benefit of Mr. McCoy and Mr. Hintze
Course scheduling information not available to the general public was provided by
Mr. McCoy to Mr. Hintze. who was presenting himself as a consultant for the College of
Education. In an e-mail from Mr. Hintze dated January 9,                                       2013 ("Financial Projections")
and attached spreadsheets, Mr. Hintze makes financial projections based on course
scheduling data received from Mr. McCoy. Aaron Thomas' e-mail reply on the same date
makes it clear that the source of at least some of the projected course information was
from Mr. McCoy. acting in his official capacity at the College of Education.
For Mr. Hintze to have the exclusive ability to forecast which courses the College of
Education will offer, gives Mr. Hintze and Mr. McCoy a huge benefit over outside
companies who might wish to do business with the College of Education.  It is a benefit
prohibited by law.
