This is an action against Defendant to redress the deprivation of rights secured to
Plaintiff by the Florida Whistle-blower's Act, Section 112.3187-112.31895, Florida Statutes.
STATUTORY PREREQUISITES TO SUIT
2. Plaintiff has exhausted his administrative remedies and complied with all statut
prerequisites to maintaining the claims asserted herein as required by the Florida Whistle- C1
blower's Act.
-rt
JURISDICTION, VENUE AND PARTIES
3. This is an action for damages in excess of Fifteen Thousand Dollars ($15,000.00),
exclusive of interest and costs.
4

4. The alleged unlawful acts of Defendant giving rise to this action were committed in
Alachua County, Florida, within the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the Eighth Judicial
Circuit, In and For Alachua County, Florida.
5. At all times material hereto, Plaintiff was a resident of Alachua County, Florida, and a
citizen of the United States of America.
6. At all times material hereto, Defendant was the governing body for the University of
Florida (hereinafter "the University"), whose main campus is located in Alachua County,
Florida.
GENERAL ALLEGATIONS
7. At all times material hereto, Plaintiff was an employee of the University of Florida
and entitled to the protections afforded under the Florida Whistle-blower's Act.
8. At all times material hereto, Defendant was an "agency" as defined by the Florida
Whistle-blower's Act.
9. At all times material hereto, Plaintiff was employed by the University as a Help Desk
Rep 1 commencing on April 25, 2014. Plaintiff was previously employed by the UniverSity as
an IT Specialist commencing on December 14, 2007, and ending on June 10, 2013.
10. On February 19, 2015, Plaintiff submitted a written complaint in the form of an
Incident Report, wherein Plaintiff primarily described the inaction and unequal treatment
exhibited by his immediate supervisor in favor of Plaintiff's co-worker, Robert Banks
(hereinafter "Banks"), when dealing with a personality conflict between Plaintiff and-Banks.
Plaintiff submitted the Incident Report to his immediate supervisor, Justin Smith (hereinafter
"Smith"); the department manager, Richard Lowery (hereinafter "Lowery"); an Employee
Relations representative, Janette Rawls (hereinafter "Rawls"); and the Director of Employee

Relations, Brook Mercier (hereinafter "Mercier"). The Incident Report further asserted there had
been a history of similar such favoritism by Smith and Lowery toward Banks.
11. On March 2, 2015, after becoming aware of possible timecard falsification taking
place within his department, Plaintiff notified Rawls and Mercier that he had cause to support
allegations of improper and dishonest acts being committed by Smith and/or Lowery for the
benefit of Banks, in violation of the University's Standards for Performance and Conduct as well
as other University and departmental regulations. Plaintiff scheduled a meeting with Employee
Relations to discuss same.
12. On March 9, 2015, Smith and Lowery issued an unfavorable annual appraisal of
Plaintiff's work performance, wherein Plaintiff was negatively criticized for his alleged inability
to work well with a team, based upon the personality conflict between Plaintiff and Banks.
Furthermore, Plaintiff received a reduced overall performance rating of Minimally Achieves as a
result of the negative evaluation. Smith and Lowery did not similarly criticize Banks in his
performance appraisal of March 9, 2015, awarding instead a number of positive remarks with
regard to Banks' alleged teamwork skills, and a favorable overall rating of Achieves.
13. On March 30, 2015, Plaintiff filed a written complaint with the University's Office
of Internal Audit (hereinafter "the OIA") and subsequently met with Roger Frank (hereinafter
"Frank") of the OIA on April 8, 2015, to address Plaintiff's allegations that Smith and/or Lowery
had been engaging in timecard fraud for the benefit of Banks.
14. On May 12, 2015, Smith claimed he had instructed Plaintiff that a work assignment
would be due by the end of Plaintiff's shift, when in fact Smith never issued said instruction, as
Plaintiff demonstrated by referring to internal chat logs.

15. On June 23, 2015, and June 24, 2015, Smith was interviewed by the OIA regarding
the allegations of timecard fraud made against him.
16. On June 25, 2015, Smith sent an email to Plaintiff and Lowery, wherein Smith
provided false and misleading information alleging that Plaintiff kept an unsanitary workspace.
Plaintiff replied via email on June 27, 2015, wherein he provided photographic evidence
disproving Smith's claims.
17. On August 24, 2015, Smith privately informed Plaintiff that he was aware that
Plaintiff was the one who had filed the OIA complaint against him. Smith further advised
Plaintiff to "give up" on the expectation of the workplace ever being comfortable and that if
Plaintiff is having so much anxiety due to the uncomfortable work environment, Plaintiff should
take extended medical leave "as that is what it is for".
18. On September 21, 2015, Smith and Lowery issued an oral reprimand against Plaintiff
for Plaintiffs use of pre-approved leave during a six month period of intermittent medical leave
which Plaintiff had certified in advance with his department and with Human Resources on
April 3, 2015, as being medically necessary in order to care for his disabled domestic partner.
19. On September 24, 2015, Plaintiff submitted a written complaint to the OIA alleging
that he had suffered unlawful whistle-blower retaliation from Smith and Lowery. Plaintiff
further alleged that the retaliatory conduct had become severe and pervasive enough to create a
work environment that a reasonable person would consider intimidating, hostile and/or abusive.
20. On October 1, 2015, Plaintiff became medically unable to work due to the hostile
work environment and the retaliatory actions of Smith and Lowery, which was certified by
Plaintiffs medical provider and subsequently approved by the University under the Family
Medical Leave Act.

21. On October 2, 2015, Plaintiff filed a formal written complaint with Rawls and
Mercier of Employee Relations, wherein Plaintiff formally reaffirmed the allegations he had
reported to the OIA on September 24, 2015. Employee Relations investigated the matter and on
February 10, 2015, published a report which determined that Smith had exhibited favoritism
toward Banks at the expense of the Plaintiff and had engaged in inappropriate conduct when he
confronted Plaintiff about initiating the OIA timecard fraud investigation.
22. On December 17, 2015, Frank of the OIA provided Plaintiff with the University's
first notification to Plaintiff that the OIA had completed its investigation of the alleged timecard
fraud and had published its findings in the OIA Investigation Report (OIA No.: INV-15-22)
dated September 24, 2015, wherein the OIA issued a determination of PARTIAL MERIT
FOUND for timecard fraud. No reprimand or disciplinary action was issued by the University
against Smith, Lowery, or Banks for the PARTIAL MERIT findings of the OIA investigation.
RETALIATION UNDER THE FLORIDA WHISTLE-BLOWER'S ACT
23. Plaintiff hereby reaffirms the allegations contained in Paragraphs Two through
Twenty-two above as though fully set forth herein.
24. Plaintiff engaged in protected conduct as defined by the Florida Whistle-blower's
Act on February 19, 2015, when Plaintiff submitted a written complaint to his immediate
supervisor, department manager and Employee Relations office, and again on March 30, 2015,
when Plaintiff made a written complaint to the OIA.
25. Plaintiff was subjected to an "adverse personnel action" as defined by the Florida
Whistle-blower's Act on March 9, 2015, when Plaintiff was issued a damaging performance
appraisal, and again on September 21, 2015, when Plaintiff was issued an unwarranted oral
reprimand. Further, Plaintiff was subjected to ongoing retaliatory hostility in the workplace.

26. There is a causal link between Plaintiffs protected conduct and the retaliatory
actions of the Defendant's employees and agents.
27. As a direct and proximate result of the aforementioned retaliatory acts of Defendant,
through its employees and agents, Plaintiff has suffered damages, including but not limited to the
following: lost wages, income and employment benefits; emotional pain and suffering; mental
anguish and associated medical expenses; loss of enjoyment of life and humiliation; and costs
associated with the pursuit of this action.
WHEREFORE, Plaintiff respectfully requests this Honorable Court grant the following
relief an Order declaring that Defendant violated Plaintiffs rights under the Florida
Whistle-blower's Act and awarding 1) reinstatement of Plaintiff to an equivalent position or
reasonable front pay; 2) reinstatement of Plaintiffs full fringe benefits and seniority rights;
3) compensation to Plaintiff for lost wages, benefits and other lost remuneration caused by the
adverse actions of Defendant through its employees and agents; 4) reimbursement to Plaintiff for
any and all costs associated with this action; 5) removal of the annual performance appraisal of
March 9, 2015, from Plaintiffs personnel records; and 6) any and all other remedy available to
Plaintiff
DEMAND FOR JURY TRIAL
Plaintiff hereby demands a trial by jury on all issues so triable.
Respectfully submitted this 3                                                                        day of April, 2017.
Jason a Jordan, la o Se
Postefice Box 141166
Gainesville, FL                                                                                      32614
Phone:                                                                                               (954) 242-0714
Email: JasonRobertJordan@yahoo.com
