The Plaintiff, DANA PETERSON, by and through his undersigned attorney, hereby files
this Complaint against the Defendant, UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA, and hereby alleges as
follows: This is an action for damages in excess of Fifteen Thousand Dollars ($15,000),
exclusive of attorney fees and costs, and for relief under Florida Statute 760.10, The
Florida Civil Rights Act.The Plaintiff has exhausted administrative remedies necessary for the commencement of this action and has received a Cause determination from the Florida Commission on Human Relations. The Plaintiff, DANA PETERSON, was employed by the Defendant, UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA, since 1987. The Plaintiff became the director of the AIM program in the spring of 1997. The AIM program was a race-neutral program, which provided assistance to first year students from economically disadvantaged backgrounds. The Plaintiff was instrumental in the development of the program and was generally credited as the "founder" of the program. While director of the program, the Plaintiff consistently received positive evaluations from administration and was well-liked by students. In 2004, the Plaintiff was promoted to Senior Lecturer. In 2008, UF's Associate Provost for Undergraduate Affairs, Dr. Wubah, announced his plans to merge the AIM program with OASIS, formerly the Office for Minority Affairs. UF's current Provost, Dr. Glover, suggested that the merger was a bad idea and the merger did not happen. In 2009, Dr. Wubah left OF and the Provost, Dr. Glover, started a search committee for a new Associate Provost. The Plaintiff was a member of that hiring committee and noticed the first signs of racial preference in employment decisions with the hiring of Dr. Bernard Mair, who is African-American. The committee found that a white female was the most qualified candidate for the position; however Dr. Mair, who had little undergraduate affairs experience at the time, was selected by the Provost, who cited diversity as a reason. After the committee meeting, another member of the committee told the Plaintiff that undergraduate education to be black. In 2009, the Plaintiff was again promoted. This time to Master Lecturer, the highest position in his academic line. In March 2010, the new Associate Provost for Undergraduate Affairs, Dr. Mair, informed Dr. Peterson that he intended to merge the AIM and OASIS offices and hire a new director. Associate Provost, Dr. Mair was permitted to appoint the new director. Mair formed a search committee for the new director position. Dr. Mair told the Plaintiff that he would have to consider the feelings of the Black Alumni Association in the selection of the new director and merger of the two programs. Before the committee had even begun deliberations, Dr. Mair also told the Plaintiff that if he didn't get selected, he could apply for the assistant director position. Plaintiff is a white male. One of the members of the search committee told the Plaintiff that he would be perfect for the job, if only he were black. The Plaintiff reported this to the Provost, Dr. Glover. The Plaintiff was not selected for the position, even though he was more qualified and experienced than the other candidates. Criteria for the position included having held an administrative position and experience
in program development. Plaintiff had experience in both administration and program development. The candidate, an African American female who was selected by Dr. Mair, did not have those minimum qualifications. The Plaintiff expressed his concerns to both Dr. Mair and Dr. Glover that the search was unfairly biased against him because he was white. The Plaintiff requested the notes from the interview process and was told by Dr. Mair,
"Well, I'm not saying that you didn't get 80% of the support." After expressing his objections to Dr. Mair about the search process and the bias against him, a series of employment related retaliations against the Plaintiff began. Plaintiff agreed to help with the merger transition, even though he was not selected for the new director position. Plaintiff did not agree to accept what he deemed a demotion by filling the associate
director of the OAS office position, which would have transitioned him from a director
of a successful program to an associate director. After expressing objections about his treatment to his supervisors, Plaintiff, for the first time in his career at the University of Florida, did not receive the average merit increase that other faculty members received. He received a 3% increase at a time when the merit raise pool for faculty that year was set at 4%. This below-average merit increase of 3% was given even though there had not been a formal evaluation of Plaintiff completed. This was in violation of the Faculty contract. In addition, Plaintiff was not afforded the opportunity to discuss the merit increase prior to its submission to the payroll department, which was in violation of the Faculty contract. After becoming aware of the below-average merit increase and pointing out the failure of administration to provide Plaintiff with an evaluation pursuant to the Faculty contract, only then was Plaintiff was informed by Dr. Mair that he would produce an evaluation. Plaintiff was then presented with the first negative evaluation he had ever received during his over 20 years of employment at the University of Florida. Shortly thereafter, Plaintiff was then presented with a letter of non-renewal of his contract. Plaintiff was led to believe during this time that another position that would utilize his experience and talents would develop, and was told by Dr. Glover that the Provost Office would provide financial support for any position that he could find on campus for up to three years. Plaintiff was then assigned to positions below his academic credentials and prior work experience, which was basically clerical work. Plaintiff filed a complaint with the Florida Commission on Human Relations, which investigated the complaint and, on June 29th 2012, returned with a Notice of Determination, which found Cause to believe that an unlawful employment practice occurred. COUNT I — DISCRIMINATION Plaintiff re-alleges paragraphs 1 through 40 as if fully set forth within During Plaintiffs employment, Plaintiff was discriminated against based upon his race, in violation Florida Civil Rights Act. Plaintiff was director of a successful program and the most qualified candidate for the new director position that was created from the merger of AIM and OASIS. Defendant could have appointed the position, but chose to form a search committee and list qualifications for the new director. Plaintiff, a white male, met all of the criteria listed for the position. Defendant, through Assistant Provost Dr. Mair, chose an African American female, who did not meet all of the criteria listed for the position. Defendant eliminated Plaintiffs position and then created a new position, using race as a factor in the hiring process. Defendant filled the position with a candidate that would satisfy both the Black Alumni Association and President Machen's desire that the face of undergraduate education be black. Plaintiff was adversely impacted, as his position was eliminated and he was not given proper consideration for the newly created position, due to his race. As a result of the Defendant's conduct, Plaintiff has suffered damages in the nature of emotional distress, loss of dignity, loss of professional reputation, physical distress, lost wages, lost benefits, both past and present, and has been required to retain the services of an attorney.COUNT II — RETALIATION Plaintiff re-alleges paragraphs 1 through 40 as if fully set forth herein. During his term of employment, Plaintiff was subjected to retaliation in violation of the Florida Civil Rights Act. Plaintiff objected to the discriminatory process for selection of the new director position created with the merger of AIM and OASIS. After Plaintiffs objection, Defendant began a series of retaliatory actions. Defendant gave Plaintiff a below-average merit increase for the first time in his career at the University of Florida. When informed by Plaintiff that he had never received his evaluation, Defendant created and provided Plaintiff with the first below-average evaluation he received during his career at the University of Florida. Defendant then notified Plaintiff that his contract was not being renewed for the first time in 20 years. Subsequently, Defendant placed Plaintiff in a position that was a clerical position. Prior to his objection to the discriminatory process referred to above, Plaintiff had been promoted to Master Lecturer, the highest rank in his academic line, and was the longtime Director of the successful AIM program. Defendant, through Dr. Glover, denied Plaintiff the opportunity to be hired to a 12-month contract by the College of Fine Arts. The 12-month contract would have increased benefits over the 9-month contract Plaintiff was working under. As recently as January 3, 2013, Defendant again issued Plaintiff a Notice of Non-Renewal, which was another violation of the faculty contract. As a result of the Defendant's conduct, Plaintiff has suffered damages in the nature of emotional distress, loss of dignity, loss of professional reputation, physical distress, lost wages, lost benefits, both past and present, and has been required to retain the services of an attorney. COUNT III — NEGLIGENT SUPERVISION, TRAINING OR RETENTION Plaintiff re-alleges paragraphs 1 through 40 as if fully set forth herein. Pursuant to the Florida Civil Rights Act, Defendant had a statutory duty to make non-discriminatory decisions regarding employment. Defendant made personnel and hiring decisions based on race. Plaintiff objected to the discriminatory hiring decisions and process to Dr. Mair, Dr. Glover, and Human Resources. Rather than conduct an investigation, cure the discriminatory process, and comply with the Florida Civil Rights Act. employees of Defendant allowed the discriminatory hiring decision to stand. In addition, subsequent to the Plaintiffs objection to the discriminatory hiring decision and process, employees of Defendant retaliated against the Plaintiff in violation of law. Because Plaintiff informed Human Resources, Defendant knew or should have known that its employees were either improperly trained on non-discriminatory hiring practices, improperly supervised, or improperly retained in a position of authority by Defendant. As a result of the Defendant's conduct, Plaintiff has suffered damages in the nature of emotional distress, loss of dignity, loss of professional reputation, physical distress, lost wages, lost benefits, both past and present, and has been required to retain the services of an attorney.