This is an action for damages that exceed Fifteen Thousand Dollars ($15,000.00),
exclusive of interest, costs and attorneys' fees. At  all  times  material  hereto,  Plaintiffs,  DAVID  W.  RUTLAND  AND JENNIFER RUTLAND, were persons residing in Leesburg, Alachua County, Florida. At all times material to this action, Defendant, UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA, was a Florida non profit corporation authorized to do business and doing business in the State of Florida. At all times material hereto, Defendant, BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA. owned, managed, controlled and was in possession of that certain
business known as UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA STEPHEN C. O'CONNELL CENTER located at
Gale Lemerand Drive and West University Avenue, Gainesville, Alachua County, Florida said
business being open to the general public, including the Plaintiff herein. At all times material hereto, Defendant, UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA, owned, managed, controlled and was in possession of that certain business known as UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA STEPHEN C. O'CONNELL CENTER located at Gale Lemerand Drive and West University Avenue, Gainesville, Alachua County, Florida said business being open to the general public, including the Plaintiff herein. On or about March 1, 2011, Plaintiff went to Defendant's business located at the
above address to be a spectator at a basketball game. At  said time  and place,  Plaintiff was  lawfully upon the premises  of the Defendants, who owed Plaintiff a duty to exercise reasonable care for his safety. COUNT I CLAIM AGAINST BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA Plaintiff realleges and incorporates paragraphs 1 though 7, and further states: At said time and place, Defendant breached its duty owed to Plaintiff by committing one or more of the following omissions or commissions: Negligently failing to maintain or adequately maintain the stairs, in that a stair was in disrepair, thus creating a tripping hazard to members of the public utilizing said stairs, including the Plaintiff herein, thus creating an unreasonably dangerous condition for him; Negligently failing to inspect or adequately inspect the stairs, as specified above, to ascertain that the stairs were not being properly maintained constituted a tripping hazard to pedestrians utilizing said stairs, including the Plaintiff herein, thus creating an unreasonably dangerous condition; Negligently failing to inspect or adequately warn the Plaintiff of the danger of the unacceptable in disrepair stairs with no markings, when Defendant knew, or through the exercise of reasonable care should have known, that said floor was unreasonably dangerous and that Plaintiff was unaware of same; and Negligently failing to correct or adequately correct the unreasonably
dangerous condition of the in disrepair stair with no markings on Defendant's premises, when
said condition was either known to Defendant, or had existed for a sufficient length of time, such that Defendant should have known of same had Defendant exercised reasonable care.
As a result, while Plaintiff, DAVID W. RUTLAND, was visiting Defendant's business, he tripped and fell while walking across the stairs which had no markings, warnings or signage, sustaining injuries as set forth in Paragraph ten (10) below. As a direct and proximate result of the negligence of Defendant, Plaintiff suffered bodily injury in and about his body and extremities, resulting in pain and suffering, disability, disfigurement, permanent and significant scarring, mental anguish, loss of the capacity for the enjoyment of life, expense of hospitalization, medical and nursing care and treatment, loss of earning, loss of the ability to earn money, and aggravation of previously existing condition.  The losses are either permanent or continuing and Plaintiff will suffer the losses in the future. WHEREFORE, Plaintiff, DAVID W. RUTLAND, demands judgment for damages against Defendant, BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA, and other such relief deemed proper by the Court. Plaintiff also demands a jury trial on all issues so triable. COUNT II CLAIM AGAINST UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA Plaintiff realleges and incorporates paragraphs 1 though 7, and further states: At said time and place, Defendant breached its duty owed to Plaintiff by
committing one or more of the following omissions or commissions: Negligently failing to maintain or adequately maintain the stairs, in that a stair was in disrepair, thus creating a tripping hazard to members of the public utilizing said stairs, including the Plaintiff herein, thus creating an unreasonably dangerous condition for him; Negligently failing to inspect or adequately inspect the stairs, as specified above, to ascertain that the stairs were not being properly maintained constituted a tripping hazard to pedestrians utilizing said stairs, including the Plaintiff herein, thus creating an unreasonably dangerous condition; Negligently failing to inspect or adequately warn the Plaintiff of the
danger of the unacceptable in disrepair stairs with no markings, when Defendant knew, or
through the exercise of reasonable care should have known, that said floor was unreasonably
dangerous and that Plaintiff was unaware of same; and Negligently failing to correct or adequately correct the unreasonably dangerous condition of the in disrepair stair with no markings on Defendant's premises, when said condition was either known to Defendant, or had existed for a sufficient length of time, such that Defendant should have known of same had Defendant exercised reasonable care. As a result, while Plaintiff, DAVID W. RUTLAND, was visiting Defendant's business, he tripped and fell while walking across the stairs which had no markings, warnings or signage, sustaining injuries as set forth in Paragraph thirteen (13) below. As a direct and proximate result of the negligence of Defendant, Plaintiff suffered bodily injury in and about his body and extremities, resulting in pain and suffering, disability, disfigurement, permanent and significant scarring, mental anguish, loss of the capacity for the enjoyment of life, expense of hospitalization, medical and nursing care and treatment, loss of earning, loss of the ability to earn money, and aggravation of previously existing condition.  The losses are either permanent or continuing and Plaintiff will suffer the losses in the future.