COME NOW the Plaintiffs, ANGELA HARPER, individually and as Parent and Natural
Guardian of AMARION HARPER, a minor, ("HARPERS") by and through their undersigned
attorneys and file this Complaint against Defendants, SHANDS TEACHING HOPSITAL AND
CLINICS, INC.,                                                                          ("SHANDS"), and UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA BOARD OF TRUSTEES,
rUFBOT"), and respectfully states unto the Court the following:
GENERAL ALLEGATIONS                                                                                         On or about dates of service beginning October 12, 2010, Angela Harper was a patient at
Shands UF, under the care and treatment, including newborn delivery, pediatric and
obgyn-maternity care of Defendant, SHANDS, through its physician staff who were
employees. agents, and/or apparent agents of Defendant SHANDS.
8.                                                                                            At that time. Defendant. SHANDS, through its physician staff who were employees,
agents. and/or apparent agents of Defendant SHANDS, had a duty to provide Angela and
Amarion with reasonable and appropriate newborn delivery, pediatric and obgyn-
maternity care.
9.                                                                                            Defendant, SHANDS, through its physician staff who were employees, agents. and/or
apparent agents of Defendant SHANDS. breached the prevailing medical standard of care
by including, but not limited to,  a) using more than gentle downward traction during
delivery  and  while  the  baby,  Amarion  Harper's,  shoulders  were  intact:  b)  using
andominal/fundal pressure while the baby, Amarion Harper's, shoulders were intact and:
c) failing to perform other alternative treatments, including but not limited to performing
an episiotomy.

10. As a direct and proximate result, Amarion Harper suffered bodily injury and resulting
pain and suffering, disability. disfigurement, mental anguish, loss of capacity for the
enjoyment of life. expensive hospitalization, medical and nursing care and treatment
and/or aggravation of a pre-existing condition, including, but not limited to, shoulder
dystocia, brachial plexus injury/nerve damage.   The losses are either permanent or
continuing and Plaintiff will suffer the losses in the future.
At all material times, physicians involved in the care and treatment of Angela Harper and
Amarion Harper at Shands were employees, actual agents and/or apparent agents of
Defendant, SLIANDS.
12.                                                                                         At all material times, Defendant, SHANDS, held out to the public the physicians at
Shands involved in the care and treatment of Angela Harper and newborn son, Amarion
Iarper as employees, actual agents and/or apparent agents of Defendant, SHANDS.
13.                                                                                         At all material times, Angela Harper and Amarion Harper justifiably accepted treatment
front physicians at Shands with the reasonable belief that treatment was being rendered
by his physicians on behalf of Shands.
14.                                                                                         At all material times, Defendant, SHANDS. owed Angela Harper and newborn son,
Amarion Harper an implied contractual, actual contractual and/or statutory non-delegable
duty to provide medical services. including, but not limited to, newborn, pediatric and
obgyn/maternity services within the applicable standard of care.
15.                                                                                         Pursuant to Defendant, SHANDS, implied contractual, actual contractual and/or statutory
non-delegable duty, Defendant. SHANDS. undertook to and assumed the duty to provide
necessary medical services within the applicable standard of care and Angela Harper and
3

newborn son, Amarion Harper did not specifically discharge Defendant. SHANDS, of
this duty.  Defendant, SHANDS, is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of third
parties occurring during the fulfillment of this duty.
16.                                                                                                Defendant SHANDS, statutory duty arises, in whole or in part, from Florida Statutes
§395.002 and §395. I 055.
17.                                                                                                Defendant. SHANDS, is vicariously liable for the negligence of its physician staff who
were employees, agents, and/or apparent agents of Defendant SHANDS, who rendered
medical care and treatment to Angela Harper and newborn son, Amarion Harper while he
was under the medical care and treatment of Defendant, SHANDS.
18.                                                                                                Pursuant to Florida Statutes Section 766.184(2), Plaintiff filed a Petition for Extension of
Medical Malpractice Statute of Limitations in Alachua County, Florida on May 7. 2012.
19.                                                                                                Plaintiff notified Defendant, SHANDS, on or about October 31.                                  2012, by certified mail
return receipt requested of Plaintiffs intent to initiate litigation for medical negligence. The
notice included a verified written medical expert opinion corroborating reasonable grounds
to support the claims.
20.                                                                                                The undersigned attorney certifies that a reasonable investigation has been made as
permitted by the circumstances to determine that grounds exist for a good faith belief that
there has been negligence in Defendant, SHANDS, and and/or its physicians, nurses, staff.
employees, agents, and/or apparent agents, care and treatment of Angela Harper and
newborn son, Amarion Harper.   This investigation agave rise to a good faith belief that
grounds exist for an action against Defendant. SHANDS, and/or its physicians, nurses,
staff, employees, agents, and/or apparent agents.
WHEREFORE.  Plaintiffs.  ANGELA  HARPER as  Parent  and  Natural  Guardian  of
4

AMAR1ON HARPER. a minor, demands judgment against Defendant, SHANDS, for damages in
an amount in excess of $15,000.00, together with costs incurred and attorneys fees if applicable
herein, and further demand a trial by jury on all issues so triable.
COUNT II — MEDICAL NEGLIGENCE AS TO DEFENDANT UFBOT
21.                                                                                                Plaintiff adopts and re-alleges the allegations in Paragraphs                           1-5 above as if fully set forth
herein.
22.                                                                                                On or about dates of service beginning October 12, 2010, Amarion Harper was a patient
at Shands UF, under the care and treatment, including pediatric and ophthalmologic care
of Defendant. UFBOT, and/or its physicians, nurses, staff, employees. agents. and/or
apparent agents. including, but not limited to. Dr. Stevens, Dr. A. Rodriguez and Dr.
Kreinest.
23.                                                                                                Defendant.  UFBOT, and/or its physicians, nurses, staff, employees, agents, and/or
apparent agents, including, but not limited to, Dr. Stevens, Dr. A. Rodriguez and Dr.
Kreinest, had a duty to provide Angela Harper and newborn son, Amarion Harper
reasonable and appropriate newborn delivery, pediatric and obgyn/maternity care at
Shands Hospital on or about October 12, 2010 through October 14, 2010.
24.                                                                                                Defendant, UFBOT, and/or its  physicians.  nurses,  staff, employees, agents. and/or
apparent agents, including. but not limited to, Dr. Stevens, Dr. A. Rodriguez and Dr.
Kreinest, breached the prevailing medical standard of care by including, but not limited
to, a) using more than gentle downward traction during delivery and while the baby,
Amarion Harper's, shoulders were intact; b) using abdominal/fundal pressure while the
baby's. Amarion Harper's. shoulders were intact and; c) failing to perform other
alternative treatments, including but not limited to performing an episiotomy.
5

25. As a direct and proximate result. Angela Harper and newborn son. Amarion Harper
suffered bodily injury and resulting pain and suffering, disability, disfigurement. mental
anguish ,loss of capacity for the enjoyment of life, expensive hospitalization, medical and
nursing care and treatment and/or aggravation of a pre-existing condition_ including, but
not limited to, shoulder dystocia, brachial plexus injury and nerve damage.  The losses
are either permanent or continuing and Plaintiff will suffer the losses in the future.
26. At all material times, physicians involved in the care and treatment of Joshua Bartee were
employees, actual agents and/or apparent agents of Defendant. UFBOT, including, but
not limited to, Dr. Stevens_ Dr. A. Rodriguez and Dr. Kreinest.
27. Pursuant to Florida Statutes Section 766.184(2), Plaintiff filed a Petition for Extension of
Medical Malpractice Statute of Limitations in Alachua County, Florida on May 7, 2012.
28. Plaintiff notified Defendant, UFBOT, on or about October 31_ 2012, by certified mail return
receipt requested of Plaintiff's intent to initiate litigation for medical negligence. The notice
included a verified written medical expert opinion corroborating reasonable grounds to
support the claims.
29. The undersigned attorney certifies that a reasonable investigation has been made as
permitted by the circumstances to determine that grounds exist for a good faith belief that
there has been negligence in Defendant, UFBOT'S, and and/or its physicians, nurses, staff,
employees, agents, and/or apparent agents, care and treatment of Angela Harper and
newborn son, Amarion Harper,  including,  but  not limited to,  Dr.  Stevens,  Dr. A.
Rodriguez and Dr. Kreinest. This investigation gave rise to a good faith belief that grounds
exist for an action against Defendant, UFBOT. and/or its physicians, nurses, staff,
6
