This is an action seeking declaratory, injunctive, and other relief for violations
of the Florida Government-In-The-Sunshine law and the Public Records Act Chapter
119, Florida Statutes, by agents of the University.  Plaintiffs contend that Defendant has
withheld certain scientific documentation and other public records from review by
Plaintiff. Defendant maintains an Extension Education Program in Broward County in
Urban   Horticulture (UF-IFAS). Whereas   the, "UF-IFAS/Broward   County   Urban
Horticulture formulates implementation policy for the OF IFAS Florida Yards and
Neighborhood residential and commercial developments in Broward County." The Defendant maintains a University campus and academic degree programs in Environmental  Horticulture,  Plant  Pathology,  and  Turfgrass  Science  in Davie, Broward County, Florida at Ft. Lauderdale Research and Education Center 3205 College Ave., Davie, FL 33314-7799. Defendant's employee and co-author of the publications at issue in this case,
John L. Cisar, Professor, Turfgrass and Water management maintains his principal place
of business in Davie, Broward County, Florida at the University Campus located at 3205
College Ave., Davie, FL 33314-7799. Venue properly lies in the Seventeenth Judicial Circuit, Broward County, Florida, pursuant to Section 47.011, Florida Statutes, whereas both parties are corporate entities maintaining places of business located in the aforesaid county. Parties Plaintiff, the SIERRA CLUB, INC., is a Florida not-for-profit corporation which promotes awareness and environmental preservation.  Sierra Club's mission is to explore, enjoy, and protect the wild places of the earth and to educate and enlist humanity to protect and restore the quality of the natural and human environment.
Defendant, the UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA, is a Florida public university, created and authorized pursuant to the laws of the State of Florida and is subject to the
provisions of the Government in the Sunshine and Public Records Laws. Article I, Section 24(a) Florida's Constitution states in pertinent part: "Every person has a right to inspect or copy any public record made or
received in connection with the official business of any public body,
officer, or employee of the state, or persons acting on their behalf, except
with respect to records exempted pursuant to this section or specifically
made confidential by this Constitution. This section specifically includes
the legislative, executive, and judicial branches of government and each
agency or department created thereunder; counties, municipalities, and
districts; and each constitutional officer, board, and commission, or entity
created pursuant to law or this constitution." Inspection and copying of records; photographing public records; fees; exemptions states in its pertinent parts:
Fla. Stat. §119.07(1)(a) Every person who has custody of a public record
shall permit the record to be inspected and copied by any person desiring to do so, at any
reasonable time under reasonable conditions, and under supervision by the custodian of
the records. A person who has custody of a public record who asserts that an exemption applies to a part of such record shall redact that portion of the record to which an exemption has been asserted and validly applies, and such person shall produce the remainder of such record for inspection and copying. If the person who has custody of a public record contends that all or part of the record is exempt from inspection and copying, he or she shall state the basis of the exemption that he or she contends is applicable to the record, including statutory citation to an exemption created or afforded by statute. If requested by the person seeking to inspect or copy the record, the custodian of records shall state in writing and with particularity the
reasons for the conclusion that the record is exempt or confidential.
The University is a public body under the Government in the Sunshine Law.
Public bodies such as the University cannot maintain public records in confidentiality out
of the public eye, except in very limited and narrow circumstances.  Wood v. Marston,
442 So. 2d 934 (Fla. 1983). The University's  Institute  of Food  and Agricultural  Sciences originally published SL 283, Unintended Consequences Associated with Certain Urban Fertilizer Ordinances and ENH 1115, Frequently Asked Questions about Landscape
Fertilization  for Florida-Friendly  Landscaping  Ordinances  in March 2009. Such
publications  identified new fertilization  standards  and promoted revision of local
ordinances with regard to nitrogen and phosphorous. Such publications have been and are currently relied on by government agencies throughout the state. Following a series of electronic mail correspondence between Sierra Club and the University, Sierra Club, via Regional Representative Cris Costello, submitted a public records request, July 29, 2010 to the University, via employees or agents Terril A. Neil and Jack M. Payne. The public record request stated in its pertinent part "I hereby submit a public records request for the names, titles, and contact information and their respective reviews made prior to publication for SL 283 and ENH 1115." (Attachment A). The public records request went unanswered and on August 13, 2010 was resubmitted by Sierra Club, via Regional Representative Cris Costello to the University, via employee or agent Janine Sikes. (Attachment B). The request stated: I hereby request the "science upon which" the urban "fertilizer management recommendations" in the "state model ordinance" are based; this includes: A. The scientific literature that suggests a 3-foot fertilizer zone is
superior to a 10-foot fertilizer-free zone for keeping fertilizer from running into surface water bodies; B. The scientific literature that suggests no storm water runoff of applied fertilizer nutrients occurs unless a rainfall of 2 inches or more falls within a 24-hour period' C. The scientific literature that suggests 30% slow/controlled release fertilizer is more or equally protective of water quality than 50% or higher slow/controlled release fertilizer; D. The scientific literature that suggests the FDEP Model "Prohibited Application Period" can be followed to the extent that fertilizer will not be applied before or during a rainfall event that produces enough runoff to carry applied nutrients from a landscape. [2] "I hereby request the documentation, including email and hard copy correspondence,  upon which the  contradiction  between Tern! Nell's  and  George Hochmuth's policy recommendations regarding urban fertilizer management and the
current FYN Florida-friendly landscaping fertilization recommendations is based.  This
will include correspondence between Nell and Hochmuth and representatives of the
turfgrass, landscape maintenance, nursery growers, fertilizer and pest control industries,
the retail federation, FDACS, FDEP and any and all state senators, representatives and
legislative aides relating to the following publications and processes:
37.  a. The revision of the 2008 Florida Friendly Best Management Practices for
Protection of Water Resources by the Green Industries (BMP Manual);
38.  b. The drafting of the 2008 Model Ordinance for Florida-Friendly Fertilizer
Use on Urban Landscapes;
39. c. The drafting of SL283: Unintended Consequences Associated with Certain
Urban Fertilizer Ordinances;
40.  d. The drafting of ENH 1115: Frequently Asked Questions about Landscape
Fertilization for Florida-Friendly Landscaping Ordinances;
41. e. The drafting of the Florida's Urban Landscape Water Quality Research
Consortium mission statement, research priorities, and discussion paper;
42.  f. The drafting of 2009 Senate Bill 494 and 2010 Senate Bill 382/House Bill
1445; and
43.  g. The 2010 revision of the Model Ordinance for Florida-Friendly Fertilizer
Use on Urban Landscapes;"
44.                                                                                      [3] "I hereby request the names, titles and contact information for all the
internal and external reviewers of the 2009 IFAS (EDIS) publications SL 283 Unintended
Consequences Associated with Certain Urban Fertilizer Ordinances and ENH                 1115
Frequently  Asked  Questions  about  Landscape  Fertilization for  Florida-Friendly
Landscaping  Ordinances,  and their respective  reviews done prior to the  original
publication of SL 283 and ENH 1115."
8

•                                                                                           •
45.                                                                                         [4] "I hereby request the names, titles and contact information for all the
internal and external reviewers of SL 283 Unintended Consequences Associated with
Certain Urban Fertilizer Ordinances, and their respective reviews done after the original
publication of SL 283."
46.  On August 19, 2010, the Sierra Club, per the request of employee or agent
Ms. Sikes refined the public records request with regard to request number 2 above and
restated it as follows: (Attachment C).
47.                                                                                         "All email or hard copy correspondence from June                              2008 to the present
between (to and from) George Hochmuth, Terri! Nell, Erica Santella, Michael Thomas
(FDEP), Chris Wible, Steven Kelly, Jim Sprat, Barry Troutman, Mary Hartney, Allen
Fugler, James Skillen, Betsy McGill, Hugh Gramling, Ben Bolusky and Chuck Aller."
48. The University's Office of the Vice President and General Counsel responded
to the request on September 9, 2010, stating in pertinent part: (Attachment D).
49.                                                                                         "I am following up on your public records requests and our telephone
conversation last week.   You asked for whatever responsive information we could
provide as soon as possible, especially regarding the documents and information I
explained are not actually public records subject to disclosure under the Florida Public
Records Act."
50. "In response to your requests numbered 3 and 4 [paragraphs 39 and 40 of this
complaint] in your August                                                                   13, 2010, email to Janine Sikes, any documents that might
have names, titles, contact information, and reviews of the reviewers of the two EDIS
publications,  "Unintended  Consequences Associated with  Certain Urban Fertilizer
Ordinances" and "Frequently Asked Questions about Landscape Fertilization for Florida-
9

•                                                                                               •
Friendly Landscaping," are not public records.   Therefore, the University is not
providing documents to you in response that these requests." (Attachment D).
51. On September 22, 2010 Janine Sikes emailed a cost estimate for fulfilling a
portion of the public records requested, "All email or hard copy correspondence from
June                                                                                            2008 to present between                                                (to and from) George Hochmuth, Terril Neil, Erica
Santella,  Michael  Thomas                                                                      (FDEP),  Chris Wible,  Steven Kelly,  Jim  Sprat,  Barry
Troutman, Mary Hartney, Allen Fugler, James Skillen, Betsy McGill, Hugh Gramling,
Ben Bolusky and Chuck Aller." (Attachment E).
52.                                                                                             "Dr. Nell and Dr. Hochmuth report that your request would require an
extensive amount of staff time to produce. As a result, the following is the cost estimate
to provide you (Plaintiff) with the documents you request:"
53. "42,180 pages                                                                               @ $0.10 per page = $4,218 and                                          180 hours                                           @ $10/hour =
$1,800. Total estimated cost = $6,018."
54.  "Additionally these emails will require inspection by the general counsel's
office to ensure no protected or other exempt information is released.  Attorney time
charged is at $89.61/hour and is estimated at 200 hours."
55.  "We require a check for the entire amount before we begin producing these
documents. If this is an overestimate, the University will refund the difference. If it is an
underestimate, the University will invoice the difference and may require additional
payment to complete the response.  Please provide payment payable to the University of
Florida in the amount of $23,940."
10

•                                                                                              •
56.                                                                                            In January 2011, The University subsequently revised and republished the
aforementioned report, "Urban Water Quality and Fertilizer Ordinances:  Avoiding
Unintended Consequences: A Review of the Scientific Literature."
57.  June 9, 2011 The Law Firm of Robert N. Hartsell, P.A. submitted a records
request on behalf of the Sierra Club, specifically requesting those records and documents
relied upon by the University in publishing SL 283 and ENH 1115 and that information
relied upon by the University in responding to Cris Costello's public records request
(Attachment E) .
58. The request included the following:
59.  "Any and all documents, meeting logs, meeting minutes, studies, opinions,
models, data, analysis, notes, calendars, objections, transcripts and/or communications,
videos, audio recordings, internal memos, staff reports, e-mails or other correspondence
to and/or from University of Florida staff, agents, private entities, public entities and/or
officials which identify, pertain to, discuss and/or substantiate the quantity of documents,
costs and calculations of costs for the production of public records requested of the
University by Cris Costello on August 13, 2010 and clarified on August 18, 2010."
60.  "Any and all documents, meeting logs, meeting minutes, studies, opinions,
models, data, analysis, notes, calendars, objections, transcripts and/or communications,
videos, audio recordings, internal memos, staff reports, e-mails or other correspondence
to and/or from University of Florida staff, agents, private entities, public entities and/or
officials which identify, pertain to, and/or discuss the September 9, 2010 denial of public
records request numbered 3 and 4."
11

•                                                                                                •
61. "Any and all emails and/or correspondence to and/or originating from Janine
Sikes, Dr. Nell and/or Dr. Hochmuth from August                                                  13, 2010 through the date of this
request regarding the public records requested of the University by Cris Costello on
August 13, 2010 and clarified on August 18, 2010."
62.                                                                                              The names, titles and contact information for all internal and external
reviewers of the 2011 revision of the IFAS (EDIS) publication SL 283, new title Urban
Water Quality and Fertilizer Ordinances: Avoiding Unintended Consequences: A Review
of the Scientific Literature (http://edis.ifas.ufl/ss496)."
63.  "Any and all documents, meeting logs, meeting minutes, studies, opinions,
models, data, analysis, notes, calendars, objections, transcripts and/or communications,
videos, audio recordings, internal memos, staff reports, e-mails or other correspondence
to and/or from County staff, private entities, public entities and/or officials which identify
and pertain to the correspondence and scientific literature relating to the change in the
IFAS (ED1S) FYN Checklist from at least 30% slow release Nitrogen on turf (in the
2009 checklist) to at least 15% slow release Nitrogen on turf (in the 2010 checklist)"
64.                                                                                              The University responded to the June                                      9,   2011 public records request on
August 1, 2011 (Attachment F).
65. The University's response reiterated their prior response, maintaining that the
names, titles, and contact information for the reviewers of the                                  2011 revision of the
referenced publication are not public records without citing specific statutory exemption
as required by Chapter 119.07(1)(e).
66.  The University further included a cost estimate for the production of those
documents not deemed to be exempt of $23,940.00.
12

•                                                                                             •
67.  The cost estimate is comprised of three elements: (1) 42,                                180 pages at $.10
per page, totaling $4,218.00; (2) 180 hours at $10.00 per hour, totaling $1,800.00; and (3)
200 hours of attorney review at $89.61 per hour, totaling $17,922.00.
Count I [Public Records]
68. This action is against the University for declaratory relief, pursuant to Article
1, Section 24, Florida Constitution and Chapter 119, Florida Statutes.
69.  The allegations of paragraphs 1-67 are re-alleged and incorporated herein by
reference.
70.                                                                                           A dispute or controversy exists between the Plaintiff and the University
regarding whether or not documents and information requested via Public Records
Requests dated July 29, 2010, August 13, 2010, August 19, 2010, and June 9, 2011 were
subject to the Florida Sunshine Law, public records requests are noted specifically above.
71.                                                                                           In that regard the University maintains that information and documents
requested are not public records and as such not subject to disclosure, because "the
reviews are an integral part of the process of research, study, and evaluation that goes
into preparing the EDIS documents for publication an in order to maintain the integrity"
and "objectivity of the academic research and publication process, University researchers
have a strong interest in withholding disclosure of this type of record."
72.  Plaintiff, on the other hand, maintains that the records requested are public
records as they were made or received in connection with the official business of the
University and are subject to disclosure under the Florida Sunshine Law.
13

•                                                                                               •
73.                                                                                             In claiming an exemption on the requested public records, the University has
not cited specific statutory reference for their proposed exemption as is required under
Chapter 119.07(1)(e).
74.                                                                                             Unless the Court declares the rights and obligations of the University in
regard to such records, the Plaintiff and the public at large will suffer irreparable harm if
in fact the University is violating the Sunshine Law by refusing to disclose such records,
for which there is no adequate remedy at law.
WHEREFORE, Plaintiff respectfully requests the following relief:
75.                                                                                             Declaration that the records withheld by the Defendant are in fact public
records.
76.  Declaration that the Defendant, University, failed to comply with their
statutory duty to permit the inspection and copying of public records;
77.                                                                                             An Order directing Defendant, University, to make the requested records
available for inspection and copying by Plaintiff;
78. An Order awarding attorney's fees and costs for prosecuting this action; and
79. Any other relief the Court deems just and proper.
Count II [Public Records — Excessive Fees]
80. Plaintiff re-alleges paragraphs 1-78 and incorporated herein by reference.
81.  This is an action seeking declaratory and injunctive relief pursuant to Article
1, Section 24, Florida Constitution and Chapter 119, Florida Statutes.
82.  Defendant  responded  to  Plaintiff's  three  requests  for  public  records,
specifically those requests detailed in the paragraphs above, and provided a cost estimate
for obtaining such documents.
14

•                                                                                            •
83.                                                                                          The cost estimate provided by Defendant was $23,940.00, which included
costs for production, personnel costs, and legal review by Defendant's attorney to
determine whether the public records, where no exemption was claimed, contain any
privileged information.
84.                                                                                          Plaintiff alleges that the cost estimate is not reasonable, as required under
Chapter 119.07(4)(d), which provides, "...in addition to the actual cost of duplication, a
special service charge, which shall be reasonable and shall be based on the cost incurred
for such extensive use of information technology resources or the labor cost of the
personnel providing the service that is actually incurred by the agency or attributable to
the agency for the clerical and supervisory assistance required, or both."
85. Plaintiff specifically sought in the records request dated June 9, 2011                  [see
paragraph                                                                                    59 above] a detailed estimate and justification of the costs identified by
Defendant in the  amount of                                                                  $23,940.00,  including  support for the production of
documents, staff/labor costs, and explanation of attorneys' fees for non-exempt records.
86.  In Corden v. Chief of Police, 696 So. 2d 772, 773 (Fla. 2d DCA 1996), the
court when considering a special service charge exceeding $4,000.00 for staff time, stated
that, "An excessive charge could well serve to inhibit the pursuit of rights conferred by
the Public Records Act."   The court in the Corden case held that, "Because section
119.07                                                                                       (1)                                                                             (b), Florida Statutes (1995), requires special service charges to be "reasonable,"
the police chief should be required to explain in more detail the reason for the magnitude
of the assessment."
15

•                                                                                            •
87.  In the instant case Defendant has not provided the Plaintiff with a detailed
explanation of the cost estimate for producing the requested documents, which are
exceedingly more expensive than those cited in the Corden case.
88.                                                                                          The  Plaintiff maintains that the  Defendant's  cost estimate  of nearly
$24,000.00 amounts to a denial of the request to review the aforementioned public
records.   The estimated costs associated with reviewing the public records are excessive
in nature and such charges would only serve to extinguish the Plaintiffs rights conferred
by the Public Records Act.
89.                                                                                          These excessive costs for reviewing emails exchanged and other regular
business records and/or communications between public officials has a chilling effect
upon any future public record request made to the Defendant.
90. Unless the Court declares the rights Plaintiff and obligations of the Defendant
with regard to such records, the Plaintiff and the public at large will suffer irreparable
harm if in fact the University is violating the Sunshine Law by refusing to disclose such
records, for which there is no adequate remedy at law.
WHEREFORE, Plaintiff respectfully requests the following relief:
91.                                                                                          Declaration that the Defendant, University, failed to comply with their
statutory duty to permit the inspection and copying of public records;
92.                                                                                          An Order directing Defendant, University, to make the requested records
available for inspection and copying at a reasonable cost to Plaintiff;
93. An Order awarding attorney's fees and costs for prosecuting this action; and
94. Any other relief the Court deems just and proper.
16

Count III [Public Records — Attorneys Fees]
95. Plaintiff re-alleges paragraphs 1-93 and incorporated herein by reference.
96.                                                                                    This is an action seeking attorney's fees under Chapter   119.12, Florida
Statutes, against the University.
97.  Prior to filing this action Defendant, University, failed to comply with the
request to permit inspection and copying of public records, by claiming an exemption
without specific statutory reference.
98. Refusal to provide requested records was unlawful.
99.  The Defendant, University, provided the Plaintiff with an unreasonable cost
estimate for production and/or review of non-exempt public records, totaling nearly
$24,000.00.
100.  Requiring the Plaintiff to pay exorbitant unreasonable fees in contradiction
to Florida statute amounts to an unlawful refusal to provide requested records.
WHEREFORE, Plaintiff respectfully requests following relief:
101. An accelerated hearing under Section 119.11(1) Fla. Stat.
102. A Declaration that the University failed to comply with its statutory duty to
permit the inspection and copying of public records;
103. An Order awarding attorney's fees and costs for prosecuting this action; and
104. Any other relief the Court deems just and proper.
RESPECTFULLY SU t                                                                      ► this                                                    %                 t  day of September, 2011.
obert                                                                                  rtsell
Florida Bar No. 636207
Robert N. Hartsell, P.A.
17

•                               •
2407 SE 14th Street
Pompano Beach, Florida 33062
Phone (954) 232-4889
Fax (954) 941-6462
Email Robert@hartsell-law.com
18

•                •
Attachment "A"

•                                                                                                      •
From: Cris Costello [mailto:cris.costelloCasierraclub.orq]
Sent: Thursday, July 29, 2010 1:23 PM
To: 'Nell,Terril A'; 'Payne,Jack M'
Cc: 'Jon Thaxton'; Theresa A. Connor'; 'Jack Merriam'; 'Brooks, Jerry'; 'Ritchie, Heather';
'Thomas, Michael'
Subject: RE: Sarasota
Terril:
Your reply only serves to make our point louder and stronger than before:
1. You have intentionally ignored the water quality/water pollution prevention issue; your
attempt to hide the fact that the "iron instead of nitrogen" recommendation for the
summer is under the Preventing Pollution section of the FYN Handbooks is a failure.
The recommendation is listed as one of the best ways to prevent water pollution by
numerous IFAS and FDEP publications.
After 16 years of FDEP and IFAS recommending "iron instead of nitrogen", if you choose
to remove that water pollution prevention recommendation from future publications you
will need to provide us with the science that substantiates any such removal.  I hereby
submit a public records request for that information if it exists.
2.                                                                                                     You have threatened to weaken UF water pollution prevention recommendations
rather than answer a perfectly legitimate request for information.
What you have accomplished is to taint the reputation of your department and UF and nothing
else. Our request for the information still stands and if I have neglected to formalize that request
in the past I do so now: I hereby submit a public records request for the information sought
in the below email dated Tuesday, July 27, 2010 4:57 PM.
In addition, in reference to your statement below: "IFAS Extension requires review of all
EDIS publications and this procedure has been followed on all of our extension
publications."
I hereby submit a public records request for the names, titles and contact information and
their respective reviews made prior to publication for SL 283 and ENH 1115.
From my reading of the public records law, none of these requested items are exempt from
disclosure. If I have not used the proper language or method to submit a formal public records
request please advise me of the correct manner to do so.
Let me remind you that I have attempted for over two years (since June 2008) to resolve this
issue outside of public view; any further delay will prove that your desire is to make this
conversation public.
Thank you for your prompt attention to these public records requests,
Cris Costello

•                         •
Regional Representative
Sierra Club
1365 Fruitville Road
Sarasota, FL 34236
Office:                   941-951-6084
Cell:                     941-914-0421

•                •
Attachment "B"

•                                                                                                   •
From: Cris Costello [mailto:cris.costello@sierraclub.org]
Sent: Friday, August 13, 2010 12:53 PM
To: 'jys@ufl.edu'
Cc: 'Nell,Terril A'; 'eam@ufl.edu'; 'Payne,Jack M'
Subject: Public Records Request
Dear Ms. Sikes:
On July 29, 2010 I submitted public records requests to Terril Nell, with a copy to Jack Payne.
Because I have heard nothing since that date, I am sending the request again, to you, in order to
ensure that it has been correctly submitted and will be correctly processed.
In the below email chain you will find my previous public records requests, however, I here
restate those requests:
1. Terril Nell was quoted in the article Retail Group Dumps Fertilizer Ban
http://www.sunshinestatenews.com/story/retail-group-dumps-fertilizer-ban-0. Nell
stated: "We are not able to support fertilizer management recommendations unless we
can document the science upon which they are based." "The state model ordinance is
backed by sound science and we are recommending that cities and counties adopt this
ordinance until additional science is available."
I hereby request the "science upon which" the urban "fertilizer management
recommendations" in the "state model ordinance" are based; this includes:
A.   The scientific literature that suggests a 3-foot fertilizer-free zone is superior to a
10-foot fertilizer-free zone for keeping fertilizer from running into surface water
bodies;
B.                                                                                                  The scientific literature that suggests no storm water runoff of applied fertilizer
nutrients occurs unless a rainfall of 2 inches or more falls within a 24-hour period;
C.   The scientific literature that suggests 30% slow/controlled release fertilizer is
more or equally protective of water quality than 50% or higher slow/controlled release
fertilizer;
D.   The scientific literature that suggests the FDEP Model "Prohibited Application
Period" can be followed to the extent that fertilizer will not be applied before or during
a rainfall event that produces enough runoff to carry applied nutrients from a
landscape.
2.                                                                                                  At the municipal, county and state level Terril Nell and George Hochmuth have
repeatedly promoted fertilizer management recommendations that are in direct conflict
with the FYN Florida-friendly landscaping fertilization recommendations.

•                                                                                                     •
I hereby request the documentation, including email and hard copy correspondence,
upon which the contradiction between Terril Nell's and George Hochmuth's policy
recommendations regarding urban fertilizer management and the current FYN Florida-
friendly landscaping fertilization recommendations is based. This will include
correspondence between Nell and Hochmuth and representatives of the turfgrass,
landscape maintenance, nursery growers, fertilizer and pest control industries, the retail
federation, FDACS, FDEP and any and all state senators, representatives and legislative
aides relating to the following publications and processes:
a.                                                                                                    The revision of the 2008 Florida Friendly Best Management Practices for
Protection of Water Resources by the Green Industries (BMP Manual);
b.                                                                                                    The drafting of the 2008 Model Ordinance for Florida-Friendly Fertilizer
Use on Urban Landscapes;
c.                                                                                                    The drafting of SL283:  Unintended Consequences Associated with
Certain Urban Fertilizer Ordinances;
d.                                                                                                    The drafting of ENH 1115: Frequently Asked Questions about
Landscape Fertilization for Florida-Friendly Landscaping Ordinances;
e.                                                                                                    The drafting of the Florida's Urban Landscape Water Quality Research
Consortium mission statement, research priorities, and discussion paper;
f.                                                                                                    The drafting of 2009 Senate Bill 494 and 2010 Senate Bill 382/House
Bill 1445; and
g.                                                                                                    The 2010 revision of the Model Ordinance for Florida-Friendly Fertilizer
Use on Urban Landscapes;
3.                                                                                                    I hereby request the names, titles and contact information for all the internal and
external reviewers of the 2009 IFAS (EDIS) publications SL 283 Unintended
Consequences Associated with Certain Urban Fertilizer Ordinances and ENH 1115
Frequently Asked Questions about Landscape Fertilization for Florida-Friendly
Landscaping Ordinances, and their respective reviews done prior to the original
publication of SL 283 and ENH 1115.
4.                                                                                                    I hereby request the names, titles and contact information for all the internal and
external reviewers of SL 283 Unintended Consequences Associated with Certain Urban
Fertilizer Ordinances, and their respective reviews done after the original publication of
SL 283.
In addition to my previous requests, I hereby request the correspondence (and scientific
literature if it exists) relating to the change in the FYN Checklist from at least 30% slow release
Nitrogen on turf (in the 2009 checklist) to at least 15% slow release Nitrogen on turf (in the 2010
checklist). I had informally requested this information from Esen Momol in July but have received
no response.

•                                                                                               •
Please advise me on how to proceed from here and if the records requests need to be formatted
differently from the above.
Thank you,
Cris Costello
Regional Representative
Sierra Club
1365 Fruitville Road
Sarasota, FL 34236
Cell:                                                                                           941-914-0421

•                •
Attachment "C"

•                                                                                                  •
From: Cris Costello [cris.costellogsierraclub.org]
Sent: Thursday, August 19, 2010 2:02 PM
To: 'Sikes, Janine'
Subject: FW: Public Records Request
Ms. Sikes.
Per your request, I am refining the public records request number 2 from the below email.
Please change that request to the following:
All email or hard copy correspondence from June 2008 to the present between (to and from)
George Hochmuth, Terril Nell, Erica Santella, Michael Thomas (FDEP), Chris Wible, Steven
Kelly, Jim Spratt, Barry Troutman, Mary Hartney, Allen Fugler, James Skillen, Betsy McGill, Hugh
Gramling, Ben Bolusky and Chuck Aller.
Thank you so much.
Cris Costello
Regional Representative
Sierra Club
1365 Fruitville Road
Sarasota, FL 34236, Hugh Gramling
Office:                                                                                            941-951-6084
Cell:                                                                                              941-914-0421

•                •
Attachment "D"

                                                                                                      •                                                                                  ii   •
                                                                                                      UNIVERSITY of
OF                                                                                                    FLORIDA
Office of the Vice President and General Counsel                                                      123 Tigert Nall
PO Box 113125
Gainesville, FL 3261.1-3125
352-392-1358
September 9, 2010                                                                                     352-392-4387 Fax
Cris Costello
Regional Representative
Sierra Club
1365 Fruitville Road
Sarasota, FL 34236
RE: Public Records Request
Dear Ms Costello:
I am following up on your public records requests and our telephone conversation last
week. You asked for whatever responsive information we could provide as soon as possible,
especially regarding the documents and information that I explained are not actually public
records subject to disclosure under the Florida Public Records Act.
In response to your requests, numbered 3 and 4 in your August 13, 2010, email to Janine
Sikes, any documents that might have the names, titles, contact information, and reviews of the
reviewers of the two EDIS publications, "Unintended Consequences Associated with Certain
Urban Fertilizer Ordinances" and "Frequently Asked Questions about Landscape Fertilization for
Florida-Friendly Landscaping," are not public records. Therefore, the University is not
providing documents to you in response that these requests.
As clarified by the Florida Supreme Court (Shevin v. Byron, Harless, et al., 379 So.2d
633 (1980)), public records are those materials that are prepared in connection with official
agency business and intended to perpetuate, communicate, or formalize knowledge. Materials
that are prepared in review of EDIS publications, drafts, and revisions are merely precursors of
governmental records. They are not intended to be final evidence of agency action. In this case,
the reviews are an integral part of the process of research, study, and evaluation that goes into
preparing the EDIS documents for publication.
In order to maintain the integrity and objectivity of the academic research and publication
process, University researchers have a strong interest in withholding disclosure of this type of
record. See Molina v. The Board of Regents of the State of Florida, Case No. 85-3212-CA (8'1'
Cir. Fla.)                                                                                            1985. The reviews are comparable to the research materials that were held by the
circuit court in the Molina case to be preliminary to the actual research and scientific study. The
anonymity of the reviewers and their reviews of the EDIS publications is vital to maintain the
academic setting and atmosphere that ensures integrity and objectivity in formulating scientific
advice. To subject these individual reviews to public scrutiny would extend the reach of the
Public Records law beyond its useful purpose without supporting its legitimate public purpose.
The Foundation for The Gator Nation
At. riqual Opportunity Inslilution

•                                                                                                     •
Cris Costello
Page 2 oft
September 9, 2010
The University of Florida respects greatly the prized and essential right of the public to
have access to documents that support the business of its governmental agencies. However,
there is also a valuable public need related to the freedom of academic researchers to formulate
hypotheses and weigh scientific options in putting together recommendations that are included in
their publications. The public would not be served by interrupting the scientific process by
subjecting reviews, rough drafts, and other preliminary information to public scrutiny. These are
the building blocks of the final product of University investigators' research and writing process,
which includes the evaluation of existing scientific studies and information as well as
independent reviews by other individuals. Of course, in evaluating the utility or accuracy of the
information in scientifically based publications, anyone is free to review the literature, consult
with experts, and weigh the evidence in support of or against the conclusions in the publication.
You also requested "the science upon which the urban fertilizer management
recommendations in the state model ordinance are based." There is no particular document upon
which that science is based. The Public Records Act does not require the University to conduct
studies or to create documents in response to your request. In fact, Dr. Nell has already provided
extensive scientific information and references to you in response to your past requests for
information.
Your remaining requests relate to correspondence between Drs. Nell and Hochmuth and
many other individuals and organizations. We are in the process of collecting that
correspondence and will contact you after we have completed the location and review of the
documents.  This correspondence is likely substantial, and we will provide an estimate of the
cost of reproducing it for you.
I understand that your requests have been included in more than one communication. If
there are documents that you have requested in addition to those that I have identified in this
letter, please do not hesitate to contact me with the additional documents that you request.
Senior University Counsel
PES/clt

•                •
Attachment "E"

•                                                                                                      •
ROBERT N. HARTSELL, P.A.
June 9, 2011
Paul Elihu Stern, Esq.
Senior University Counsel
Intellectual Property & Research
University of Florida
123 .Tif2ert Hall
Gainesville, Florida                                                                                   32611
Re:                                                                                                    Public Records Request concerning IFAS (EDIS) publication SL 283 and ENH 1115
Dear Mr. Stern:
Please consider this a public records request pursuant to Chapter 119.07, Florida Statutes,
to review all public records, as that term is defined in Chapter 119, Florida Statutes, specifically
pertaining to IFAS (EDIS) publication SL 283 and ENH 1115, including the following:
1. Any and all documents, meeting logs, meeting minutes. studies, opinions, models, data,
analysis, notes. calendars, objections, transcripts and/or communications, videos, audio
recordings, internal memos, staff reports, c-mails or other correspondence to and/or from
University of Florida staff, agents, private entities, public entities and/or officials which
identify, pertain to, discuss and/or substantiate the quantity of documents, costs and
calculations of costs for production of the public records requested of the University by
Cris Costello on August 13, 2010 and clarified on August 18, 2010. (See Attached exhibit
A and B).
Any and all documents, meeting logs, meeting minutes, studies, opinions, models, data,
analysis, notes, calendars, objections, transcripts and/or communications, videos, audio
recordings, internal memos, staff reports, e-mails or other correspondence to and/or from
University of Florida staff, agents, private entities, public entities and/or officials which
identify, pertain to, and/or discuss the September 9, 2010 denial of public records request
numbered 3 and 4. (See Attached Exhibit C).
3. Any and all emails and/or correspondence to and/or originating from Janine Sikes, Dr.
Nell and/or Dr.                                                                                        1-lochmuth from August                                                          13,   2010 through the date of this request
regarding the public records requested of the University by Cris Costello on August 13,
2010 and clarified on August 18, 2010. (See Attached Exhibit A).
4. The names, titles and contact information for all the internal and external reviewers of the
2011 revision of the IFAS                                                                              (ED.1S) publication SL 283, new title Urban Water Quality
2407 SE 14TH STREET • POMPANO BEACH, FL 33062 • PHONE (954) 232-4889 • FAX (954) 941-6462
EMAIL: ROBERT@HARTSELL-LAW.COM                                                                         VVWW.HARTSELL-LAW.COM

and Fertilizer Ordinances: Avoiding  Unintended Consequences: A Review of the
Scientific! Literature (htto://edis.ifas.ulledu/ss496).
5. Any and all documents, meeting logs, meeting minutes, studies, opinions, models, data,
analysis, notes, calendars, objections, transcripts and/or communications, videos, audio
recordings, internal memos, staff reports, c-mails or other correspondence to and/or from
County staff, private entities, public entities and/or officials which identify and pertain to
the correspondence and scientific literature relating to the change in the IFAS                    (EDIS)
FYN Checklist from at least 30% slow release Nitrogen on turf (in the 2009 checklist) to
at least 15% slow release Nitrogen on turf (in the 2010 checklist).
Electronic copies of documents are preferred, to the extent they are available.
If any recordings/documents requested above have been lost or destroyed, please identify
by author, publisher, videographer and/or audio recorder, date and subject matter the recordings
or documents so lost or destroyed. With respect to any recording or document requested which
was once in possession, custody or control, but no longer is, please indicate the date the
document ceased to be in possession, custody or control, the manner in which it is ceased, and
the name and address of its present custodian. If any recordings/documents requested above are
deemed by you as attorney client privileged or attorney work product, please provide the name,
date and an identifying description of such document.
Should you deny this request, or any part of the request, please state in writing the
basis for the denial, including the exact statutory citation authorizing the denial, as
required by S. 119.07(1)(d), Fla.Stat.  As recognized by the University of Florida's public
records policy "[vjirtually any document created, received or maintained by the University
or by its representatives is considered public record. Thus most correspondence and other
documents you author or receive are subject to inspection by the public."
I would like to have a representative review these documents and audio/visual recordings
at your earliest opportunity.  Your immediate response is requested. Please contact us at (954)
232-4889 for the best method of review of these materials as they become available.
or your pr                                                                                         r                         pt attention to this request.
,                                                                                                  Sincerely,
i                                                                                                  sr
E                                                                                                  bert N.   artscll, Esq.
cc: Cris Costello, Sierra Club.

•           •
Exhibit A

•                                                                                                            •
From: Cris Costello [cris.costello wsierraclub.orgl
Sent: Thursday, August 19, 2010 2:02 PM
To: 'Sikes. Janine'
Subject: FW: Public Records Request
Ms. Sikes:
Per your request, I am refining the public records request number 2 from the below email.
Please change that request to the following:
All email or hard copy correspondence from June 2008 to the present between (to and from) George
Hochmuth, Terril Nell, Erica Santella, Michael Thomas (FDEP), Chris Wible, Steven Kelly, Jim Spratt,
Barry Troutman, Mary Hartney, Allen Fugler, James Skillen, Betsy McGill, Hugh Gramling, Ben Bolusky
and Chuck Aller.
Thank you so much.
Cris Costello
Regional Representative
Sierra Club
1365 Fruitville Road
Sarasota, FL 34236, Hugh Gramling
Office:                                                                                                      941-951-6084
Cell:                                                                                                        941-914-0421
From: Cris Costello [mailto:cris.costello@sierraclub.org]
Sent: Friday, August 13, 2010 12:53 PM
To: 'jys@ufl.edu'
Cc: 'Nell,Terril A'; 'eam@ufl.edu'; 'Payne,Jack M'
Subject: Public Records Request
Dear Ms. Sikes:
On July 29, 2010 I submitted public records requests to Terril Nell, with a copy to Jack Payne. Because I
have heard nothing since that date, I am sending the request again, to you, in order to ensure that it has
been correctly submitted and will be correctly processed.
In the below email chain you will find my previous public records requests, however, I here restate those
requests:
1.                                                                                                           Terril Nell was quoted in the article Retail Group Dumps Fertilizer Ban
htto://www.sunshinestatenews.com/storylretail-qroup-dumps-fertilizer-ban-0. Nell stated: "We
are not able to support fertilizer management recommendations unless we can document the
science upon which they are based." "The state model ordinance is backed by sound science
and we are recommending that cities and counties adopt this ordinance until additional science is
available."

•                                                                                                     •
I hereby request the "science upon which" the urban "fertilizer management recommendations"
in the "state model ordinance" are based; this includes:
A.   The scientific literature that suggests a 3-foot fertilizer-free zone is superior to a 10-foot
fertilizer-free zone for keeping fertilizer from running into surface water bodies;
B.                                                                                                    The scientific literature that suggests no storm water runoff of applied fertilizer nutrients
occurs unless a rainfall of 2 inches or more falls within a 24-hour period;
C                                                                                                     The scientific literature that suggests 30% slow/controlled release fertilizer is more or equally
protective of water quality than 50% or higher slow/controlled release fertilizer;
D.   The scientific literature that suggests the FDEP Model "Prohibited Application Period" can be
followed to the extent that fertilizer will not be applied before or during a rainfall event that
produces enough runoff to carry applied nutrients from a landscape.
2.  At the municipal, county and state level Terril Nell and George Hochmuth have repeatedly
promoted fertilizer management recommendations that are in direct conflict with the FYN Florida-
friendly landscaping fertilization recommendations.
I hereby request the documentation, including email and hard copy correspondence, upon which
the contradiction between Terril Nell's and George Hochmuth's policy recommendations
regarding urban fertilizer management and the current FYN Florida-friendly landscaping
fertilization recommendations is based. This will include correspondence between Nell and
Hochmuth and representatives of the turfgrass, landscape maintenance, nursery growers,
fertilizer and pest control industries, the retail federation, FDACS, FDEP and any and all state
senators, representatives and legislative aides relating to the following publications and
processes:
a.                                                                                                    The revision of the 2008 Florida Friendly Best Management Practices for Protection
of Water Resources by the Green Industries (BMP Manual);
b.                                                                                                    The drafting of the 2008 Model Ordinance for Florida-Friendly Fertilizer Use on
Urban Landscapes;
c.                                                                                                    The drafting of SL283:  Unintended Consequences Associated with Certain Urban
Fertilizer Ordinances;
d.                                                                                                    The drafting of ENH 1115:  Frequently Asked Questions about Landscape
Fertilization for Florida-Friendly Landscaping Ordinances;
e.                                                                                                    The drafting of the Florida's Urban Landscape Water Quality Research Consortium
mission statement, research priorities, and discussion paper;
f.                                                                                                    The drafting of 2009 Senate Bill 494 and 2010 Senate Bill 382/House Bill 1445; and
g.                                                                                                    The 2010 revision of the Model Ordinance for Florida-Friendly Fertilizer Use on
Urban Landscapes;

•                                                                                                             •
3.                                                                                                            I hereby request the names, titles and contact information for all the internal and external
reviewers of the 2009 IFAS (EDIS) publications SL 283 Unintended Consequences Associated
with Certain Urban Fertilizer Ordinances and ENH 1115 Frequently Asked Questions about
Landscape Fertilization for Florida-Friendly Landscaping Ordinances, and their respective
reviews done prior to the original publication of SL 283 and ENH 1115.
4.                                                                                                            I hereby request the names, titles and contact information for all the internal and external
reviewers of SL 283 Unintended Consequences Associated with Certain Urban Fertilizer
Ordinances, and their respective reviews done after the original publication of SL 283.
In addition to my previous requests, I hereby request the correspondence (and scientific literature if it
exists) relating to the change in the FYN Checklist from at least 30% slow release Nitrogen on turf (in the
2009 checklist) to at least 15% slow release Nitrogen on turf (in the 2010 checklist). I had informally
requested this information from Esen Momol in July but have received no response.
Please advise me on how to proceed from here and if the records requests need to be formatted
differently from the above.
Thank you,
Cris Costello
Regional Representative
Sierra Club
1365 Fruitville Road
Sarasota, FL 34236
Cell:                                                                                                         941-914-0421

•           •
Exhibit B

•                                                                                                             •
From: Sikes, Janine fmailto:jysikes UFLEDU1
Sent: Wednesday, September 22, 2010 4:43 PM
To: Cris Costello
Cc: Nell,Terril A; Hochmuth,George J,II; Stern,Paul E; Adams,Jane A
Subject: Public Records Request
Dear Ms. Costello:
I am writing specifically regarding the part of your public records request that we clarified on Aug. 18. I
apologize for the delay. You asked for copies of: All email or hard copy correspondence from June 2008
to the present between (to and from) George Hochmuth, Terril Nell, Erica Santella, Michael Thomas
(FDEP), Chris Wible, Steven Kelly, Jim Spratt, Barry Troutman, Mary Hartney, Allen Fugler, James Skillen,
Betsy McGill, Hugh Gramling, Ben Bolusky and Chuck Aller.
Dr. Nell and Dr. Hochmuth report that your request would require an extensive amount of staff time to
produce. As a result, the following is the cost estimate to provide you with the documents you request:
42,180 pages @ $0.10 per page = $4,218
180 hours @ $10/hour = $1,800
Total estimated cost=$6,018
Additionally, these e-mails will require inspection by the general counsel's office to ensure no protected
or other exempt information is released. Attorney time is charged at $89.61/hour and is estimated at
200 hours.
We require a check for the entire amount before we will begin producing these documents. If this is an
overestimate, the University will refund the difference. If it is an underestimate, the University will
invoice the difference and may require additional payment to complete the response. Please provide
payment payable to the University of Florida in the amount of $23,940.
Please let us know how you would like us to proceed.
Sincerely,
Janine Sikes
Director of Public Affairs
University Relations
101 Tigert Hall
352-846-3903/06
jysikes@ufl.edu

•           S
Exhibit C

UNIVERSITY of
IDA
Office of the vice President and General Counsel                                                      123 Tigert Hall
PO Box 113125
Gainesville, FL 32611-3125
352-392-1358
September 9, 2010                                                                                     352-392-4387 Fax
Cris Costello
Regional Representative
Sierra Club
1365 Fruitville Road
Sarasota, FL 34236
RE: Public Records Request
Dear Ms Costello:
I am following up on your public records requests and our telephone conversation last
week. You asked for whatever responsive information we could provide as soon as possible,
especially regarding the documents and information that 1 explained are not actually public
records subject to disclosure under the Florida Public Records Act.
In response to your requests, numbered 3 and 4 in your August 13, 2010, email to Janine
Sikes, any documents that might have the names, titles, contact information, and reviews of the
reviewers of the two EDIS publications, "Unintended Consequences Associated with Certain
Urban Fertilizer Ordinances" and "Frequently Asked Questions about Landscape Fertilization for
Florida-Friendly Landscaping," are not public records. Therefore, the University is not
providing documents to you in response that these requests.
As clarified by the Florida Supreme Court (Shevin v. Byron, Harless, et al„ 379 So.2d
633 (1980)), public records are those materials that are prepared in connection with official
agency business and intended to perpetuate, communicate, or formalize knowledge. Materials
that are prepared in review of EDIS publications, drafts, and revisions are merely precursors of
governmental records. They are not intended to be final evidence of agency action. in this case,
the reviews are an integral part of the process of research, study, and evaluation that goes into
preparing the EDIS documents for publication.
In order to maintain the integrity and objectivity of the academic research and publication
process, University researchers have a strong interest in withholding disclosure of this type of
record. Sec Molina v. The Board of Regents of the State of Florida, Case No. 85-3212-CA (8th
Cir. Fla.)                                                                                            1985. The reviews are comparable to the research materials that were held by the
circuit court in the Molina case to be preliminary to the actual research and scientific study. The
anonymity of the reviewers and their reviews of the EDIS publications is vital to maintain the
academic setting and atmosphere that ensures integrity and objectivity in formulating scientific
advice. To subject these individual reviews to public scrutiny would extend the reach of the
Public Records law beyond its useful purpose without supporting its legitimate public purpose.
The Foundation for The Gator Nation
An Equal OrpOitthilly InAhffitm

Cris Costello
Page 2 of 2
September 9, 2010
The University of Florida respects greatly the prized and essential right of the public to
have access to documents that support the business of its governmental agencies. However,
there is also a valuable public need related to the freedom of academic researchers to formulate
hypotheses and weigh scientific options in putting together recommendations that are included in
their publications. The public would not be served by interrupting the scientific process by
subjecting reviews, rough drafts, and other preliminary information to public scrutiny. These are
the building blocks of the final product of University investigators' research and writing process,
which includes the evaluation of existing scientific studies and information as well as
independent reviews by other individuals. Of course, in evaluating the utility or accuracy of the
information in scientifically based publications, anyone is free to review the literature, consult
with experts, and weigh the evidence in support of or against the conclusions in the publication.
You also requested "the science upon which the urban fertilizer management
recommendations in the state model ordinance are based." There is no particular document upon
which that science is based. The Public Records Act does not require the University to conduct
studies or to create documents in response to your request. In fact, Dr. Nell has already provided
extensive scientific information and references to you in response to your past requests for
information.
Your remaining requests relate to correspondence between Drs. Nell and Hochmuth and
many other individuals and organizations. We are in the process of collecting that
correspondence and will contact you after we have completed the location and review of the
documents.  This correspondence is likely substantial, and we will provide an estimate of the
cost of reproducing it for you.
1 understand that your requests have been included in more than one communication. If
there are documents that you have requested in addition to those that I have identified in this
letter, please do not hesitate to contact me with the additional documents that you request.
Senior University Counsel
PES/clt

•
Attachment "F"

•
UF
Office of the Vice President and General Counsel                                            123 Tigert Hall
PO Box 113125
Gainesville, FL 32611-3125
352-392-1358
352-392-4387 Fax
August 1, 2011
Via Federal Express
Robert N. Hartsell, Esq.
2407 SE 14th Street
Pompano Beach, Florida                                                                      33062
RE:                                                                                         Public Records Request
Dear Mr. Hartsell:
Thank you for your public records request of June 9, 2011. We have searched the
relevant University records for this response. Below, I respond to each of your numbered
paragraphs.
1. I have enclosed copies of the records that pertain to the quantity of documents,
costs, and calculations of costs for the production of the referenced public records
requests.
2. There are no public records regarding the denial of the referenced public records
requests other than the letter in your exhibit C.
3. I have enclosed the relevant documents from Janine Sikes and Professors Nell and
Hochrnuth.
4. The issue of the names, titles, and contact information for the reviewers of the
2011 revision of the referenced publication are not public records, as explained in
the letter which is Exhibit C to your request.
5. I have enclosed an email regarding that question. There are no other public
records.
If you have any questions regarding this response and the enclosed records, please do not
hesitate to contact me.
Since
aul Elihu Stern
Senior University Counsel
PES/clt
The Foundation for The Gator Nation
An Equal Opportunity Institution

                                                                                                                                •                                       •
Sikes, Janine
From:                                                                                                                           Sikes, Janine
Sent:                                                                                                                           Wednesday, September 22, 2010 4.43 PM
To:                                                                                                                             Cris Costello
Cc:                                                                                                                                                                     Nell,Terril A; Hochmuth,George J,II; Stern,Paul E; Adams,Jane A
Subject:                                                                                                                        Public Records Request
Dear Ms. Costello:
I am writing specifically regarding the part of your public records request that we clarified on Aug. 18. I apologize for the
delay. You asked for copies of: All email or hard copy correspondence from June 2008 to the present between (to and
from) George Hochmuth, Terril Nell, Erica Santella, Michael Thomas (FDEP), Chris Wible, Steven Kelly, Jim Spratt, Barry
Troutman, Mary Hartney, Allen Fugler, James Skillen, Betsy McGill, Hugh Gramling, Ben Bolusky and Chuck Aller.
Dr. Nell and Dr. Hochmuth report that your request would require an extensive amount of staff time to produce. As a
result, the following is the cost estimate to provide you with the documents you request:
42,180 pages @ $0.10 per page = $4,218
180 hours @ $10/hour = $1,800
Total estimated cost=$6,018
Additionally, these e-mails will require inspection by the general counsel's office to ensure no protected or other exempt
information is released. Attorney time is charged at $89.61/hour and is estimated at 200 hours.
We require a check for the entire amount before we will begin producing these documents. If this is an overestimate,
the University will refund the difference. If it is an underestimate, the University will invoice the difference and may
require additional payment to complete the response. Please provide payment payable to the University of Florida in
the amount of $23,940.
Please let us know how you would like us to proceed.
Sincerely,
Janine Sikes
Director of Public Affairs
University Relations
101 Tigert Hall
352-846-3903/06
jysikes@ufl.edu

                                                                                                                                •                                       •
Sikes, Janine
From:                                                                                                                           Stern,Paul E
Sent:                                                                                                                           Wednesday, September 22, 2010 4:26 PM
To:                                                                                                                             Sikes, Janine
Subject:                                                                                                                        RE: Public Records request
Janine,
I suggest you use the following. The IFAS professors' arithmetic wasn't quite right.
Dear Ms. Costello:
I am writing specifically regarding the part of your public records request that we clarified on Aug. 18. I apologize for the
delay. You asked for copies of: All email or hard copy correspondence from June 2008 to the present between (to and
from) George Hochmuth, Terril Nell, Erica Santella, Michael Thomas (FDEP), Chris Wible, Steven Kelly, Jim Spratt, Barry
Troutman, Mary Hartney, Allen Fugler, James Skillen, Betsy McGill, Hugh Gramling, Ben Bolusky and Chuck Aller.
Dr. Nell and Dr. Hochmuth report that your request would require an extensive amount of staff time to produce. As a
result, the following is the cost estimate to provide you with the documents you request:
42,180 pages @ $0.10 per page = $4,218
180 hours @ $10/hour = $1,800
Total estimated cost-$6,018
Additionally, these e-mails will require inspection by the general counsel's office to ensure no protected or other exempt
information is released. Attorney time is charged at $89.61/hour and is estimated at 200 hours.
We require a check for the entire amount before we will begin producing these documents. If this is an overestimate,
the University will refund the difference. If it is an underestimate, the University will invoice the difference and may
require additional payment to complete the response. Please provide payment payable to the University of Florida in
the amount of $23,940.
Please let us know how you would like us to proceed.
Sincerely,
Janine Sikes
Director of Public Affairs
University Relations
101 Tigert Hall
352-846-3903/06
jysikes@ufl.edu
Paul Elihu Stern
Senior University Counsel
Intellectual Property & Research
University of Florida

•                                                                                                                               •
123 Tigert Hall
Gainesville, Florida                                                                                                            32611
352-392-1358, voice
352-392-4387, fax
pestern@ufl.edu
From: Sikes, Janine
Sent: Tuesday, September 21, 2010 10:33 AM
To: Stern,Paul E
Subject: Public Records request
Shall I go ahead and send the following to Cris Costello? Make any edits as you see fit. janine
Dear Ms. Costello:
I am writing specifically regarding the part of your public records request that we clarified on Aug. 18. I apologize for the
delay. You asked for copies of: All email or hard copy correspondence from June 2008 to the present between (to and
from) George Hochmuth, Terril Nell, Erica Santella, Michael Thomas (FDEP), Chris Wible, Steven Kelly, Jim Spratt, Barry
Troutman, Mary Hartney, Allen Fugler, James Skillen, Betsy McGill, Hugh Gramling, Ben Bolusky and Chuck Aller.
Dr. Nell and Dr. Hochmuth report that your request would require an extensive amount of staff time to produce. As a
result, the following is the cost estimate to provide you with the documents you request:
Dr. Nell:
•                                                                                                                               3,620 emails, 4 pages for printing
•                                                                                                                               600 attachments, 15 pages for printing
•                                                                                                                               14,480 pages @ $0.10 per page = $2,348
•                                                                                                                               100 hours @ $10/hr = $1000
Total estimated cost = $3,348.00
Dr. Hochmuth:
2,800 emails, averaging 4 pages each for printing
500 attachments, averaging 15 pages for printing
This comes to 18,700 pages @ $0.10 per page=$1,870
80 hours @ $10/hour= $800
Total estimated cost=$2,670
Additionally, these e-mails will require inspection by the general counsel's office to ensure no protected information          is
released.
We require a check for the entire amount before we will begin producing these documents.
Please let us know how you would like us to proceed.
Sincerely,

•
Janine Sikes
Director of Public Affairs
University Relations
101 Tigert Hall
352-846-3903/06
jysikes@ufl.edu

                                                                     •                                                                  •
Sikes, Janine
From:                                                                Tomlinson,Cassandra L
Sent:                                                                Thursday, September 16, 2010 9:50 AM
To:                                                                  Sikes, Janine; Payne,Jack M; Nell,Terril A; Hochmuth,George J,11
Cc:                                                                  Stern,Paul E
Subject:                                                             Sierra Club
Attachments:                                                         Costello It 9-9-10.pdf
Please see the attachment letter to Cris Costello from Paul Stern.
Cassandra Tomlinson-Bridges
Assistant to Paul E. Stern and Imogene L. Cathey
Office of the Vice President and General Counsel
University of Florida
P.O. Box 113125
Gainesville, FL 32611-3125
ctomlin@ufl.edu
(352) 392-1358 phone
(352) 392-4387 fax

•
lfitVERSITY of
Office of the Vice President and General Counsel                                                      123 Tigert Hall
PO Box 113125
Gainesville, FL 32611-3125
352-392-1358
September 9, 2010                                                                                     352-392-4387 Fax
Cris Costello
Regional Representative
Sierra Club
1365 Fruitville Road
Sarasota, FL 34236
RE: Public Records Request
Dear Ms Costello:
I am following up on your public records requests and our telephone conversation last
week. You asked for whatever responsive information we could provide as soon as possible,
especially regarding the documents and information that I explained are not actually public
records subject to disclosure under the Florida Public Records Act.
In response to your requests, numbered 3 and 4 in your August 13, 2010, email to Janine
Sikes, any documents that might have the names, titles, contact information, and reviews of the
reviewers of the two EDIS publications, "Unintended Consequences Associated with Certain
Urban Fertilizer Ordinances" and "Frequently Asked Questions about Landscape Fertilization for
Florida-Friendly Landscaping," are not public records. Therefore, the University is not
providing documents to you in response that these requests.
As clarified by the Florida Supreme Court (Shevin v. Byron, Harless, et al., 379 So.2d
633 (1980)), public records are those materials that are prepared in connection with official
agency business and intended to perpetuate, communicate, or formalize knowledge. Materials
that are prepared in review of EDIS publications, drafts, and revisions are merely precursors of
governmental records. They are not intended to be final evidence of agency action. In this case,
the reviews are an integral part of the process of research, study, and evaluation that goes into
preparing the EDIS documents for publication.
In order to maintain the integrity and objectivity of the academic research and publication
process, University researchers have a strong interest in withholding disclosure of this type of
record. See Molina v. The Board of Regents of the State of Florida, Case No. 85-3212-CA (8th
Cir. Fla.) 1985. The reviews are comparable to the research materials that were held by the
circuit court in the Molina case to be preliminary to the actual research and scientific study. The
anonymity of the reviewers and their reviews of the EDIS publications is vital to maintain the
academic setting and atmosphere that ensures integrity and objectivity in formulating scientific
advice. To subject these individual reviews to public scrutiny would extend the reach of the
Public Records law beyond its useful purpose without supporting its legitimate public purpose.
The Foundation for The Gator Nation
An Equal Opportunity Lnititution

•                                                                                                     •
Cris Costello
Page 2 of 2
September 9, 2010
The University of Florida respects greatly the prized and essential right of the public to
have access to documents that support the business of its governmental agencies. However,
there is also a valuable public need related to the freedom of academic researchers to formulate
hypotheses and weigh scientific options in putting together recommendations that are included in
their publications. The public would not be served by interrupting the scientific process by
subjecting reviews, rough drafts, and other preliminary information to public scrutiny. These are
the building blocks of the final product of University investigators' research and writing process,
which includes the evaluation of existing scientific studies and information as well as
independent reviews by other individuals. Of course, in evaluating the utility or accuracy of the
information in scientifically based publications, anyone is free to review the literature, consult
with experts, and weigh the evidence in support of or against the conclusions in the publication.
You also requested "the science upon which the urban fertilizer management
recommendations in the state model ordinance are based." There is no particular document upon
which that science is based. The Public Records Act does not require the University to conduct
studies or to create documents in response to your request. In fact, Dr. Nell has already provided
extensive scientific information and references to you in response to your past requests for
information.
Your remaining requests relate to correspondence between Drs. Nell and Hochmuth and
many other individuals and organizations. We are in the process of collecting that
correspondence and will contact you after we have completed the location and review of the
documents.  This correspondence is likely substantial, and we will provide an estimate of the
cost of reproducing it for you.
I understand that your requests have been included in more than one communication. If
there are documents that you have requested in addition to those that 1 have identified in this
letter, please do not hesitate to contact me with the additional documents that you request.
Sincer
Elihu Stern
Senior University Counsel
PES/clt

                                                                                                                    •                                       •
Sikes, Janine
From:                                                                                                               Sikes, Janine
Sent:                                                                                                               Wednesday, September 15, 2010 3:19 PM
To:                                                                                                                 Hochmuth,George J,II; Nell.Terril A
Cc:                                                                                                                 Stern,Paul E
Subject:                                                                                                            Checking in
Hi guys:
What is the ETA on the estimate of time, copies and cost for the documents requested by Cris Costello? We need to
provide that estimate soon.
Thanks for your help, janine
Janine Sikes
Director of Public Affairs
University Relations
101 Tigert Hall
352-846-3903/06
iysikes@uffedu

                                                                                                    •                                     •
Sikes, Janine
From:                                                                                               Stern, Paul E
Sent:                                                                                               Monday, September 13, 2010 10:37 AM
To:                                                                                                 Sikes, Janine
Subject:                                                                                            Re: Sierra Club
I wasn't meaning to rush you. I believe Dr. Nell is out of the country.
From: Sikes, Janine
To: Stern,Paul E
Sent: Mon Sep 13 10:22:52 2010
Subject: RE: Sierra Club
That is on my list to do today. Thanks, janine
From: Stern,Paul E
Sent: Monday, September 13, 2010 10:22 AM
To: Sikes, Janine; Payne,Jack M; Nell,Terril A; Hochmuth,George J,I1
Subject: FW: Sierra Club
I have attached a draft copy of the letter that was delivered to Cris Costello last Friday. When
my assistant is back in the office, I can get you a copy of the signed letter. Please let me know
when the emails and other correspondence are assessed. Paul
Paul Elihu Stern
Senior University Counsel
Intellectual Property & Research
University of Florida
123 Tigert Hall
Gainesville, Florida                                                                                32611
352-392-1358, voice
352-392-4387, fax
pestern@ufl.edu

•                                                                                                                             •
Sikes, Janine
From:                                                                                                                         Cris Costello [cris.costello@sierraclub.org]
Sent:                                                                                                                         Friday, September 03, 2010 3:54 PM
To:                                                                                                                           Stern,Paul E; Sikes, Janine
Cc:                                                                                                                           'Brooks, Jerry'; 'Ritchie, Heather'; 'Jon Thaxton'; 'Jack Merriam'; 'Theresa A. Connor';
'Thomas, Michael'
Subject:                                                                                                                      FW: Public Records Request
Paul Elihu Stern
Senior University Counsel
Office of the Vice President and General Counsel
University of Florida
123 Tigert Hall
Gainesville, FL 32611
Mr. Stern:
Clarifications were made to the Sierra Club public records request regarding the correspondence portion of the inquiry
and in as much, I understand the delay in the forwarding of those items.
However, the original unaltered request for the other items, especially the records relating to the pre-release and post-
release internal and external reviews of the IFAS (EDIS) publications SL 283 Unintended Consequences Associated with
Certain Urban Fertilizer Ordinances and ENH 1115 Frequently Asked Questions about Landscape Fertilization for Florida-
Friendly Landscaping Ordinances, was made on July 29. More than a month has passed and the reviews and reviewer
contact information have yet to be forwarded; these items should have been readily collected and immediately available.
I cannot imagine a legitimate reason for any further delay in providing access to these easy to locate items. Thank you for
your prompt attention to this matter.
Sincerely,
Cris Costello
Regional Representative
Sierra Club
1365 Fruitville Road
Sarasota, FL 34236
Office:                                                                                                                       941-951-6084
Cell:                                                                                                                         941-914-0421
From: Cris Costello [mailto:cris.costello@sierraclub.org]
Sent: Wednesday, August 25, 2010 8:16 AM
To: 'Sikes, Janine'
Subject: RE: Public Records Request
Yes, that is correct.
Thank you,
Cris Costello
Regional Representative
Sierra Club
1365 Fruitville Road
Sarasota, FL 34236
Office:                                                                                                                       941-951-6084
Cell:                                                                                                                         941-914-0421

•                                                                                                                         •
From: Sikes, Janine [mailto:jysikes@ufl.edu]
Sent: Tuesday, August 24, 2010 11:31 AM
To: Cris Costello
Subject: RE: Public Records Request
Cris: I need clarification on one thing:
You are looking for correspondence between George Hochmuth and all of the others listed; and between Terrill Nell and
all the others listed.
And not two years of e-mails between George and Terrill.
Correct?
Thanks for your help, janine
Janine Sikes
Director of Public Affairs
University Relations
101 Tigert Hall
352-846-3903/06
jysikes@ufl.edu
From: Cris Costello (mailto:cris.costello@sierraclub.org]
Sent: Thursday, August 19, 2010 2:02 PM
To: Sikes, Janine
Subject: FW: Public Records Request
Ms. Sikes:
Per your request, I am refining the public records request number 2 from the below email.
Please change that request to the following:
All email or hard copy correspondence from June 2008 to the present between (to and from) George Hochmuth, Terri!
Nell, Erica Santella, Michael Thomas (FDEP), Chris Wible, Steven Kelly, Jim Spratt, Barry Troutman, Mary Hartney, Allen
Fugler, James Skilien, Betsy McGill, Hugh Gramling, Bert Bolusky_and Chuck Aller.
Thank you so much.
Cris Costello
Regional Representative
Sierra Club
1365 Fruitville Road
Sarasota, FL 34236, Hugh Gramling
Office:                                                                                                                   941-951-6084
Cell:                                                                                                                     941-914-0421
From: Cris Costello [mailto:cris.costello@sierraclub.org]
Sent: Friday, August 13, 2010 12:53 PM
To: lys©ufl.edu'

•                                                                                                                              •
Cc: 'Nell,Terril A'; 'eam@ufl.edu'; 'Payne,Jack M'
Subject: Public Records Request
Dear Ms, Sikes:
On July 29, 2010 I submitted public records requests to Terril Nell, with a copy to Jack Payne.  Because I have heard
nothing since that date, I am sending the request again, to you, in order to ensure that it has been correctly submitted and
will be correctly processed.
In the below email chain you will find my previous public records requests, however, I here restate those requests:
1.                                                                                                                             Terril Nell was quoted in the article Retail Group Dumps Fertilizer Ban
http://www.sunshinestatenews.com/story/retail-oroup-dumps-fertilizer-ban-0.  Nell stated: "We are not able to
support fertilizer management recommendations unless we can document the science upon which they are
based." "The state model ordinance is backed by sound science and we are recommending that cities and
counties adopt this ordinance until additional science is available."
I hereby request the science upon which" the urban "fertilizer management recommendations" in the "state
model ordinance" are based; this includes:
A.   The scientific literature that suggests a 3-foot fertilizer-free zone is superior to a                                    10-foot fertilizer-free zone for
keeping fertilizer from running into surface water bodies;
B.   The scientific literature that suggests no storm water runoff of applied fertilizer nutrients occurs unless a
rainfall of 2 inches or more falls within a 24-hour period;
C.  The scientific literature that suggests 30% slow/controlled release fertilizer is more or equally protective of
water quality than 50% or higher slow/controlled release fertilizer;
D.  The scientific literature that suggests the FDEP Model "Prohibited Application Period" can be followed to the
extent that fertilizer will not be applied before or during a rainfall event that produces enough runoff to carry
applied nutrients from a landscape.
2.                                                                                                                             At the municipal, county and state level Terril Nell and George Hochmuth have repeatedly promoted fertilizer
management recommendations that are in direct conflict with the FYN Florida-friendly landscaping fertilization
recommendations.
I hereby request the documentation, including email and hard copy correspondence, upon which the
contradiction between Terril Nell's and George Hochmuth's policy recommendations regarding urban fertilizer
management and the current FYN Florida-friendly landscaping fertilization recommendations is based. This will
include correspondence between Nell and Hochmuth and representatives of the turfgrass, landscape
maintenance, nursery growers, fertilizer and pest control industries, the retail federation, FDACS, FDEP and any
and all state senators, representatives and legislative aides relating to the following publications and processes:
a.                                                                                                                             The revision of the 2008 Florida Friendly Best Management Practices for Protection of Water
Resources by the Green Industries (BMP Manual);
b.   The drafting of the 2008 Model Ordinance for Florida-Friendly Fertilizer Use on Urban Landscapes;
c.  The drafting of SL283:  Unintended Consequences Associated with Certain Urban Fertilizer
Ordinances;
d.                                                                                                                             The drafting of ENH 1115:  Frequently Asked Questions about Landscape Fertilization for Florida-
Friendly Landscaping Ordinances;
e.                                                                                                                             The drafting of the Florida's Urban Landscape Water Quality Research Consortium mission
statement, research priorities, and discussion paper;
f.                                                                                                                             The drafting of 2009 Senate Bill 494 and 2010 Senate Bill 382/House Bill 1445; and
g.                                                                                                                             The 2010 revision of the Model Ordinance for Florida-Friendly Fertilizer Use on Urban Landscapes;
3.                                                                                                                             I hereby request the names, titles and contact information for all the internal and external reviewers of the 2009
IFAS (EDIS) publications SL 283 Unintended Consequences Associated with Certain Urban Fertilizer Ordinances
and ENH 1115 Frequently Asked Questions about Landscape Fertilization for Florida-Friendly Landscaping
Ordinances, and their respective reviews done prior to the original publication of SL 283 and ENH 1115.
4.                                                                                                                             I hereby request the names, titles and contact information for all the internal and external reviewers of SL 283
Unintended Consequences Associated with Certain Urban Fertilizer Ordinances, and their respective reviews
done after the original publication of SL 281

•                                                                                                                               •
In addition to my previous requests, I hereby request the correspondence (and scientific literature if it exists) re            lating to
the change in the FYN Checklist from at least 30% slow release Nitrogen on turf (in the 2009 checklist) to at least 15%
slow release Nitrogen on turf (in the 2010 checklist). I had informally requested this information from Esen Momol in July
but have received no response.
Please advise me on how to proceed from here and if the records requests need to be formatted differently from the
above.
Thank you,
Cris Costello
Regional Representative
Sierra Club
1365 Fruitville Road
Sarasota, FL 34236
Cell:                                                                                                                           941-914-0421
From: Cris Costello [mailto:cris.costello@sierraclub.org]
Sent: Thursday, July 29, 2010 1:23 PM
To: 'NelliTerril A'; 'Payne,Jack
Cc: 'Jon Thaxton'; Theresa A. Connor'; 'Jack Merriam'; 'Brooks, Jerry'; 'Ritchie, Heather'; 'Thomas, Michael'
Subject: RE: Sarasota
Terri!:
Your reply only serves to make our point louder and stronger than before:
1. You have intentionally ignored the water qualitylwater pollution prevention issue; your attempt to hide the fact
that the "iron instead of nitrogen" recommendation for the summer is under the Preventing Pollution section of
the FYN Handbooks is a failure. The recommendation is listed as one of the best ways to prevent water pollution
by numerous IFAS and FDEP publications.
After 16 years of FDEP and IFAS recommending "iron instead of nitrogen", if you choose to remove that water
pollution prevention recommendation from future publications you will need to provide us with the science that
substantiates any such removal.  I hereby submit a public records request for that information if it exists.
2.                                                                                                                              You have threatened to weaken UF water pollution prevention recommendations rather than answer a
perfectly legitimate request for information.
What you have accomplished is to taint the reputation of your department and UF and nothing else. Our request for the
information still stands and if I have neglected to formalize that request in the past I do so now:  I hereby submit a public
records request for the information sought in the below email dated Tuesday, July 27, 2010 4:57 PM.
In addition, in reference to your statement below: "IFAS Extension requires review of all EDIS publications and this
procedure has been followed on all of our extension publications."
I hereby submit a public records request for the names, titles and contact information and their respective
reviews made prior to publication for SL 283 and ENH 1115.
From my reading of the public records law, none of these requested items are exempt from disclosure. If I have not used the
proper language or method to submit a formal public records request please advise me of the correct manner to do so.
Let me remind you that I have attempted for over two years (since June 2008) to resolve this issue outside of public view;
any further delay will prove that your desire is to make this conversation public.
Thank you for your prompt attention to these public records requests,
Cris Costello
Regional Representative
Sierra Club
1303 fruilvilie KUCK1

Sarasota, FL 34236
Office:                                                                                                               941-951_6084
Cell:                                                                                                                 941-914-0421
From: Nell,Terril A [mailto:tanell@uffedu]
Sent: Thursday, July 29, 2010 11:40 AM
To: Cris Costello
Cc: 'Jon Thaxton'; 'Theresa A. Connor'; 'Jack Merriam'
Subject: RE: Sarasota
Cris,
Your email to Dr. Payne has been referred to me. You have clearly outlined the Florida-Friendly
LandscapingTM principles that form the foundation for our fertilizer recommendations and landscape
management programs. These principles are represented in all areas of our programs: Florida Yards and
Neighborhoods program, Homeowner Association programs, Builder and Developer programs and the Florida-
Friendly Best Management Practices for Protection of Water Resources by the Green Industry manual and
training program. As you are aware, every commercial fertilizer applicator in the state is required to conduct
and pass the Florida-Friendly Best Management Practices for Protection of Water Resources by the Green
Industry by 2014.
One area that will be clarified is the statement about the use of iron to green up turfgrass during the summer.
In the FYN Handbook, we state:  "Your plants will indicate when they lack certain elements — you just have to
know what to look for. Plant nutrient deficiency symptoms are often symmetrical (for example, yellowing areas
that appear to be mirror images on a plant leaf), whereas pathogenic (e.g., fungal or bacterial) problems tend
to appear more randomly on the plant. Remember that many nutrient deficiencies look similar. Any time
you're not certain of what ails a plant, take a sample into your county Extension office for help." In other words,
iron cannot substitute for nitrogen deficiency and nitrogen cannot substitute for iron deficiency. We will be
making every effort to be clear about these nutrient relationships in the future and appreciate that you have
called this misunderstanding to our attention.
As you and I have discussed in the past, much of the problem we face is related to poor application practices
by consumers or improper management of clippings and yard waste. These problems require an on-going
educational program as we are doing through the Florida Friendly Landscaping TM program within our county
extension offices and in cooperation with the Florida Department of Environmental Protection.
Finally, IFAS Extension requires review of all EDIS publications and this procedure has been followed on all of
our extension publications.
I hope this information is helpful.
Terril

                                                                                                                               •                                   •
Sikes, Janine
From:                                                                                                                          Sikes, Janine
Sent:                                                                                                                          Tuesday, August 24, 2010 11:38 AM
To:                                                                                                                            Nell,Terril A
Cc:                                                                                                                            Stern, Paul E
Subject:                                                                                                                       Sierra Club
Terrill:
Paul Stern and I met on Monday to discuss the public records requests Cris Costello has submitted. I told Paul I would
work with you on two pieces of the request Cris Costello sent to me.
Below is the first:
1.) Terri! Nell was quoted in the article Retail Group Dumps Fertilizer Ban
http.//www.sunshinestatenews.com/story/retail-group-dumps-fertilizer-ban-0. Nell stated: "We are not able to
support fertilizer management recommendations unless we can document the science upon which they are
based." "The state model ordinance is backed by sound science and we are recommending that cities and
counties adopt this ordinance until additional science is available."
I hereby request the "science upon which" the urban "fertilizer management recommendations" in the "state
model ordinance" are based; this includes:
A.   The scientific literature that suggests a 3-foot fertilizer-free zone is superior to a 10-foot fertilizer-free zone for
keeping fertilizer from running into surface water bodies;
B.   The scientific literature that suggests no storm water runoff of applied fertilizer nutrients occurs unless a
rainfall of 2 inches or more falls within a 24-hour period;
C.  The scientific literature that suggests 30% slow/controlled release fertilizer is more or equally protective of
water quality than 50% or higher slow/controlled release fertilizer;
D.  The scientific literature that suggests the FDEP Model "Prohibited Application Period" can be followed to the
extent that fertilizer will not be applied before or during a rainfall event that produces enough runoff to carry
applied nutrients from a landscape.
Feel free to call me to discuss what we have already provided her and to discuss any pieces of this that remain. I should
be around until 3:30 p.m. today and most of the day tomorrow.
I am clarifying another request with Cris and will touch base with you on that once she returns my e-mail. janine
Janine Sikes
Director of Public Affairs
University Relations
101 Tigert Hall
352-846-3903/06
jysikes@ufl.edu

                                                                                                                          •                                   •
Sikes, Janine
From:                                                                                                                     Stern,Paul E
Sent:                                                                                                                     Thursday, August 19, 2010 2:17 PM
To:                                                                                                                       Sikes, Janine
Subject:                                                                                                                  Re: Public Records Request
Talk to you Monday.
From: Sikes, Janine
To: Stern,Paul E
Cc: Holt,Rebecca 3; Wingo,Barbara C; Nell,Terril A; Keith,Jamie Lewis; Payne,Jack M; Adams,Jane A
Sent: Thu Aug 19 14:11:52 2010
Subject: FW: Public Records Request
Hi all:
I spoke with Cris Costello on Wednesday afternoon and asked her to refine her No. 2 request on the public records
request she sent me (pasted below.) She complied with my request. See below.
I also informed her that I would be working with the general counsel and IFAS to determine what has been delivered to
her and what remains outstanding. I told her the OF attorney handling her request is out for the rest of the week. Paul
and I will compare notes when he returns on Monday. We'll loop in everyone else after that.
Thanks, janine
Janine Sikes
Director of Public Affairs
University Relations
101 Tigert Hall
352-846-3903/06
jysikes@ufl.edu
From: Cris Costello [mailto:cris.costello@sierraclub.org]
Sent: Thursday, August 19, 2010 2:02 PM
To: Sikes, Janine
Subject: FW: Public Records Request
Ms. Sikes:
Per your request, I am refining the public records request number 2 from the below email.
Please change that request to the following:
All email or hard copy correspondence from June 2008 to the present between (to and from) George Hochmuth, Terri!
Nell, Erica Santella, Michael Thomas (FDEP), Chris Wible, Steven Kelly, Jim Spratt, Barry Troutman, Mary Hartney, Allen
Fugler, James Skillen, Betsy McGill, Hugh Gramling, Ben Bolusky and Chuck Aller.
Thank you so much.

•                                                                                                                              •
Cris Costello
Regional Representative
Sierra Club
1365 Fruitville Road
Sarasota, FL 34236, Hugh Gramling
Office:                                                                                                                        941-951-6084
Cell:                                                                                                                          941-914-0421
From: Cris Costello [mailto:cris.costello@sierraclub.org]
Sent: Friday, August 13, 2010 12:53 PM
To: lys@ufLedu'
Cc: 'Nell,Terril A'; 'eam@ufLedu'; 'Payne,Jack M'
Subject: Public Records Request
Dear Ms. Sikes:
On July 29, 2010 I submitted public records requests to Terril Nell, with a copy to Jack Payne. Because I have heard
nothing since that date, I am sending the request again, to you, in order to ensure that it has been correctly submitted and
will be correctly processed.
In the below email chain you will find my previous public records requests, however, I here restate those requests:
1.                                                                                                                             Terril Nell was quoted in the article Retail Group Dumps Fertilizer Ban
http://www.sunshinestatenews.com/story/retail-group-dumps-fertilizer-ban-0. Nell stated: "We are not able to
support fertilizer management recommendations unless we can document the science upon which they are
based." "The state model ordinance is backed by sound science and we are recommending that cities and
counties adopt this ordinance until additional science is available."
I hereby request the "science upon which" the urban "fertilizer management recommendations" in the "state
model ordinance" are based; this includes:
A.   The scientific literature that suggests a 3-foot fertilizer-free zone is superior to a                                    10-foot fertilizer-free zone for
keeping fertilizer from running into surface water bodies;
B.   The scientific literature that suggests no storm water runoff of applied fertilizer nutrients occurs unless a
rainfall of 2 inches or more falls within a 24-hour period;
C.  The scientific literature that suggests 30% slow/controlled release fertilizer is more or equally protective of
water quality than 50% or higher slow/controlled release fertilizer;
D.  The scientific literature that suggests the FDEP Model "Prohibited Application Period" can be followed to the
extent that fertilizer will not be applied before or during a rainfall event that produces enough runoff to carry
applied nutrients from a landscape.
2.                                                                                                                             At the municipal, county and state level Terril Nell and George Hochmuth have repeatedly promoted fertilizer
management recommendations that are in direct conflict with the FYN Florida-friendly landscaping fertilization
recommendations.
I hereby request the documentation, including email and hard copy correspondence, upon which the
contradiction between Terril Nell's and George Hochmuth's policy recommendations regarding urban fertilizer
management and the current FYN Florida-friendly landscaping fertilization recommendations is based. This will
include correspondence between Nell and Hochmuth and representatives of the turfgrass, landscape
maintenance, nursery growers, fertilizer and pest control industries, the retail federation, FDACS, FDEP and any
and all state senators, representatives and legislative aides relating to the following publications and processes:
a.                                                                                                                             The revision of the 2008 Florida Friendly Best Management Practices for Protection of Water
Resources by the Green Industries (BMP Manual);
b.                                                                                                                             The drafting of the 2008 Model Ordinance for Florida-Friendly Fertilizer Use on Urban Landscapes;
c.                                                                                                                             The drafting of SL283:  Unintended Consequences Associated with Certain Urban Fertilizer
Ordinances;
d.                                                                                                                             The drafting of ENH 1115: Frequently Asked Questions about Landscape Fertilization for Florida-
Friendly Landscaping Ordinances;
e.                                                                                                                             The drafting of the Florida's Urban Landscape Water Quality Rcacarch Consortium mission
statement, research priorities, and discussion paper;
f.                                                                                                                             The drafting of 2009 Senate Bill 494 and 2010 Senate Bill 382/House Bill 1445; and

•                                                                                                                               •
g.                                                                                                                              The 2010 revision of the Model Ordinance for Florida-Friendly Fertilizer Use on Urban Landscapes;
3.                                                                                                                              I hereby request the names, titles and contact information for all the internal and external reviewers of the 2009
IFAS (EDIS) publications SL 283 Unintended Consequences Associated with Certain Urban Fertilizer Ordinances
and ENH 1115 Frequently Asked Questions about Landscape Fertilization for Florida-Friendly Landscaping
Ordinances, and their respective reviews done prior to the original publication of SL 283 and ENH 1115.
I hereby request the names, titles and contact information for all the internal and external reviewers of SL 283
Unintended Consequences Associated with Certain Urban Fertilizer Ordinances, and their respective reviews
done after the original publication of SL 283.
In addition to my previous requests, I hereby request the correspondence (and scientific literature if it exists) relating to
the change in the FYN Checklist from at least 30% slow release Nitrogen on turf (in the 2009 checklist) to at least 15%
slow release Nitrogen on turf (in the 2010 checklist).  I had informally requested this information from Esen Momol in July
but have received no response.
Please advise me on how to proceed from here and if the records requests need to be formatted differently from the
above.
Thank you,
Cris Costello
Regional Representative
Sierra Club
1365 Fruitville Road
Sarasota, FL 34236
Cell:                                                                                                                           941-914-0421
From: Cris Costello [mailto:cris.costelloOsierraclub.org]
Sent: Thursday, July 29, 2010 1:23 PM
To: 'Nell,Terril A'; 'Payne,Jack M'
Cc: 'Jon Thaxton'; 'Theresa A. Connor', 'Jack Merriam'; 'Brooks, Jerry'; 'Ritchie, Heather'; 'Thomas, Michael'
Subject: RE: Sarasota
Terril:
Your reply only serves to make our point louder and stronger than before:
1. You have intentionally ignored the water quality/water pollution prevention issue, your attempt to hide the fact
that the "iron instead of nitrogen" recommendation for the summer is under the Preventing Pollution section of
the FYN Handbooks is a failure. The recommendation is listed as one of the best ways to prevent water pollution
by numerous IFAS and FDEP publications.
After 16 years of FDEP and IFAS recommending "iron instead of nitrogen", if you choose to remove that water
pollution prevention recommendation from future publications you will need to provide us with the science that
substantiates any such removal.  I hereby submit a public records request for that information if it exists.
2.                                                                                                                              You have threatened to weaken UF water pollution prevention recommendations rather than answer a
perfectly legitimate request for information.
What you have accomplished is to taint the reputation of your department and UF and nothing else. Our request for the
information still stands and if I have neglected to formalize that request in the past I do so now: I hereby submit a public
records request for the information sought in the below email dated Tuesday, July 27, 2010 4:57 PM.
In addition, in reference to your statement below: "IFAS Extension requires review of all EDIS publications and this
procedure has been followed on all of our extension publications."
I hereby submit a public records request for the names, titles and contact information and their respective
reviews made prior to publication for SL 283 and ENH 1115.

•                                                                                                                             •
From my reading of the public records law. none of these requested items are exempt from disclosure. If I have not used the
proper language or method to submit a formal public records request please advise me of the correct manner to do so.
Let me remind you that I have attempted for over two years (since June 2008) to resolve this issue outside of public view;
any further delay will prove that your desire is to make this conversation public.
Thank you for your prompt attention to these public records requests,
Cris Costello
Regional Representative
Sierra Club
1365 Fruitville Road
Sarasota, FL 34236
Office:                                                                                                                       941-951-6084
Cell:                                                                                                                         941-914-0421
From: Nell,Terril A [mailto:tanell@ufl.edu]
Sent: Thursday, July 29, 2010 11:40 AM
To: Cris Costello
Cc: 'Jon Thaxton'; 'Theresa A. Connor'; 'Jack Merriam'
Subject: RE: Sarasota
Cris,
Your email to Dr. Payne has been referred to me.  You have clearly outlined the Florida-Friendly
LandscapingTM principles that form the foundation for our fertilizer recommendations and landscape
management programs. These principles are represented in all areas of our programs: Florida Yards and
Neighborhoods program, Homeowner Association programs, Builder and Developer programs and the Florida-
Friendly Best Management Practices for Protection of Water Resources by the Green Industry manual and
training program. As you are aware, every commercial fertilizer applicator in the state is required to conduct
and pass the Florida-Friendly Best Management Practices for Protection of Water Resources by the Green
Industry by 2014.
One area that will be clarified is the statement about the use of iron to green up turfgrass during the summer.
In the FYN Handbook, we state:  "Your plants will indicate when they lack certain elements — you just have to
know what to look for. Plant nutrient deficiency symptoms are often symmetrical (for example, yellowing areas
that appear to be mirror images on a plant /eat), whereas pathogenic (e.g., fungal or bacterial) problems tend
to appear more randomly on the plant.  Remember that many nutrient deficiencies look similar. Any time
you're not certain of what ails a plant, take a sample into your county Extension office for help." In other words,
iron cannot substitute for nitrogen deficiency and nitrogen cannot substitute for iron deficiency. We will be
making every effort to be clear about these nutrient relationships in the future and appreciate that you have
called this misunderstanding to our attention.
As you and I have discussed in the past, much of the problem we face is related to poor application practices
by consumers or improper management of clippings and yard waste. These problems require an on-going
educational program as we are doing through the Florida Friendly Landscaping1M program within our county
extension offices and in cooperation with the Florida Department of Environmental Protection.
Finally, IFAS Extension requires review of all EDIS publications and this procedure has been followed on all of
our extension publications.
I hope this information is helpful.
Terril

                                                                                                                               •                                                                                                              •
Sikes, Janine
From:                                                                                                                          Sikes, Janine
Sent:                                                                                                                          Tuesday, August 17, 2010 5:17 PM
To:                                                                                                                            Stern,Paul E
Subject:                                                                                                                       RE: Sierra Club
Pasted below: I want to address No. 2 which asks for e-mails for an unspecified period of time between Terrill Nell and
George Hochmuth and a series of unidentified companies in various industries, all state senators, representatives and
legislative aides. It's a ridiculous request that we would never be able to comply with. ja nine
Dear Ms. Sikes:
On July 29, 2010 I submitted public records requests to Terril Nell, with a copy to Jack Payne. Because I have heard
nothing since that date, I am sending the request again, to you, in order to ensure that it has been correctly submitted and
will be correctly processed.
In the below email chain you will find my previous public records requests, however, I here restate those requests:
1.                                                                                                                             Terril Nell was quoted in the article Retail Group Dumps Fertilizer Ban
http://mvw.sunshinestatenews.com/story/retail-eroup-dumps-fertilizer-ban-0. Nell stated: "We are not able to
support fertilizer management recommendations unless we can document the science upon which they are
based." "The state model ordinance is backed by sound science and we are recommending that cities and
counties adopt this ordinance until additional science is available."
I hereby request the "science upon which" the urban 'fertilizer management recommendations" in the "state
model ordinance" are based; this includes:
A.   The scientific literature that suggests a 3-foot fertilizer-free zone is superior to a                                    10-foot fertilizer-free zone for
keeping fertilizer from running into surface water bodies;
B.   The scientific literature that suggests no storm water runoff of applied fertilizer nutrients occurs unless a
rainfall of 2 inches or more falls within a 24-hour period;
C.  The scientific literature that suggests 30% slow/controlled release fertilizer is more or equally protective of
water quality than 50% or higher slow/controlled release fertilizer;
D.  The scientific literature that suggests the FDEP Model "Prohibited Application Period" can be followed to the
extent that fertilizer will not be applied before or during a rainfall event that produces enough runoff to carry
applied nutrients from a landscape.
2.                                                                                                                             At the municipal, county and state level Terril Nell and George Hochmuth have repeatedly promoted fertilizer
management recommendations that are in direct conflict with the FYN Florida-friendly landscaping fertilization
recommendations.
I hereby request the documentation, including email and hard copy correspondence, upon which the
contradiction between Terril Nell's and George Hochmuth's policy recommendations regarding urban fertilizer
management and the current FYN Florida-friendly landscaping fertilization recommendations is based. This will
include correspondence between Nell and Hochmuth and representatives of the turfgrass, landscape
maintenance, nursery growers, fertilizer and pest control industries, the retail federation, FDACS, FDEP and any
and all state senators, representatives and legislative aides relating to the following publications and processes:
a.  The revision of the 2008 Florida Friendly Best Management Practices for Protection of Water
Resources by the Green Industries (BMP Manual);
b.  The drafting of the 2008 Model Ordinance for Florida-Friendly Fertilizer Use on Urban Landscapes;
c.  The drafting of SL283:  Unintended Consequences Associated with Certain Urban Fertilizer
Ordinances;
d.  The drafting of ENH 1115: Frequently Asked Questions about Landscape Fertilization for Florida-
Friendly Landscaping Ordinances;
e.  The drafting of the Florida's Urban Landscape Water Quality Research Consortium mission
statement, icsedn.:11 priorities, ano discUSSion paper;
f.                                                                                                                             The drafting of 2009 Senate Bill 494 and 2010 Senate Bill 382/House Bill 1445; and

•                                                                                                                               •
g.  The 2010 revision of the Model Ordinance for Florida-Friendly Fertilizer Use on Urban Landscapes;
3.                                                                                                                              I hereby request the names, titles and contact information for all the internal and external reviewers of the 2009
IFAS (EDIS) publications SL 283 Unintended Consequences Associated with Certain Urban Fertilizer Ordinances
and ENH 1115 Frequently Asked Questions about Landscape Fertilization for Florida-Friendly Landscaping
Ordinances, and their respective reviews done prior to the original publication of SL 283 and ENH 1115.
I hereby request the names, titles and contact information for all the internal and external reviewers of SL 283
Unintended Consequences Associated with Certain Urban Fertilizer Ordinances, and their respective reviews
done after the original publication of SL 283.
In addition to my previous requests, I hereby request the correspondence (and scientific literature if it exists) relating to
the change in the FYN Checklist from at least 30% slow release Nitrogen on turf (in the 2009 checklist)' to at least 15%
slow release Nitrogen on turf (in the 2010 checklist). I had informally requested this information from Esen Momol in July
but have received no response.
Please advise me on how to proceed from here and if the records requests need to be formatted differently from the
above.
Thank you,
Cris Costello
Regional Representative
Sierra Club
1365 Fruitville Road
Sarasota, FL 34236
Cell:                                                                                                                           941-914-0421
From: Stern,Paul E
Sent: Tuesday, August 17, 2010 5:02 PM
To: Sikes, Janine
Subject: Re: Sierra Club
probably, but what was her request to you?
From: Sikes, Janine
To: Stern,Paul E
Sent: Tue Aug 17 16:53:25 2010
Subject: RE: Sierra Club
OK. I may e-mail Cris Costello tomorrow regarding her e-mail requests she made to me. They are overly broad and would
cost thousands if we could even complete them. I think I can do that without us comparing notes. Are you OK with that?
janine
From: Stern,Paul E
Sent: Tuesday, August 17, 2010 4:42 PM
To: Sikes, Janine
Subject: Re: Sierra Club
Sorry I'm in a meeting in Alachua.

•                                                                                                                               •
From: Sikes, Janine
To: Stern,Paul E
Sent: Tue Aug 17 16:40:00 2010
Subject: RE: Sierra Club
Are you in now?
From: Stern,Paul E
Sent: Tuesday, August 17, 2010 4:40 PM
To: Sikes, Janine
Subject: Re: Sierra Club
Janine, I will not be in tomorrow and was hoping to take off the rest of the week. If we should discuss it soon, I could come
in on Thursday. Paul
From: Sikes, Janine
To: Stern,Paul E
Sent: Tue Aug 17 16:32:31 2010
Subject: Sierra Club
Paul:
Do you have time Wednesday to discuss the Sierra Club? I am free all day except between 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. janine
Janine Sikes
Director of Public Affairs
University Relations
101 Tigert Hall
352-846-3903/06
jysikes@ufl.edu

                                                                                       •                                                                  •
Stern,Paul E
From:                                                                                  Nell,Tern1 A
Sent:                                                                                  Monday, September 20, 2010 2:01 PM
To:                                                                                    Stern, Paul E
Cc:                                                                                    Momol, Esen
Subject:                                                                               RE: estimates
Paul,
Esen and I have discussed the 15% slow release recommendation.  As I thought,
the change was made to comply with state law as stated in the rule 5e-
1.003                                                                                  (4)                                                                (e) (Slow or Controlled Release, stabilized Nitrogen and Enhanced
Efficiency Fertilizers).  This rule states that fertilizers containing 15% slow
release or more are classified as 'slow release'.  With this change we comply with
state law but do not restrict the use or suggest that fertilizers with only 15% slow
release be used.  Instead, we are suggesting that slow release fertilizers (15% or
more of the nitrogen from slow release nitrogen sources) are used.
On page 25 of the FYN Handbook, we state that "In Florida, any fertilizer that is
labeled "slow release" or "controlled release" must contain 15 percent or more
slow release or control release nitrogen.
It continues                                                                           it's a good idea to look for a fertilizer with higher amounts of
nitrogen. So, we recommend slow release nitrogen higher than 15%.
I hope this is helpful.
Terril

                                                                                                      •                                                                                  •
                                                                                                      UNIVERSITY of
UF                                                                                                    FLORIDA.
Office of the Vice President and General Counsel                                                      123 Tigert Nall
PO Box 113125
Gainesville, FL 32611-3125
352-392-1358
September 9, 2010                                                                                     352-392-4387 Fax
Cris Costello
Regional Representative
Sierra Club
1365 Fruitville Road
Sarasota, FL 34236
RE: Public Records Request
Dear Ms Costello:
I am following up on your public records requests and our telephone conversation last
week. You asked for whatever responsive information we could provide as soon as possible,
especially regarding the documents and information that I explained are not actually public
records subject to disclosure under the Florida Public Records Act.
In response to your requests, numbered 3 and 4 in your August 13, 2010, email to Janine
Sikes, any documents that might have the names, titles, contact information, and reviews of the
reviewers of the two EDIS publications, "Unintended Consequences Associated with Certain
Urban Fertilizer Ordinances" and "Frequently Asked Questions about Landscape Fertilization for
Florida-Friendly Landscaping," are not public records. Therefore, the University is not
providing documents to you in response that these requests.
As clarified by the Florida Supreme Court (Shevin v. Byron, Harless, et al., 379 So.2d
633 (1980)), public records are those materials that are prepared in connection with official
agency business and intended to perpetuate, communicate, or formalize knowledge. Materials
that are prepared in review of EDIS publications, drafts, and revisions are merely precursors of
governmental records. They are not intended to be final evidence of agency action. In this case,
the reviews are an integral part of the process of research, study, and evaluation that goes into
preparing the EDIS documents for publication.
In order to maintain the integrity and objectivity of the academic research and publication
process, University researchers have a strong interest in withholding disclosure of this type of
record. See Molina v. The Board of Regents of the Slate of Florida, Case No. 85-3212-CA (8'1'
Cir. Fla.)                                                                                            1985. The reviews are comparable to the research materials that were held by the
circuit court in the Molina case to be preliminary to the actual research and scientific study. The
anonymity of the reviewers and their reviews of the EDIS publications is vital to maintain the
academic setting and atmosphere that ensures integrity and objectivity in formulating scientific
advice. To subject these individual reviews to public scrutiny would extend the reach of the
Public Records law beyond its useful purpose without supporting its legitimate public purpose.
The Foundation for The Gator Nation
An Equal Opportunity In5iitutinn

I
•
Cris Costello
Page 2 of 2
September 9, 2010
The University of Florida respects greatly the prized and essential right of the public to
have access to documents that support the business of its governmental agencies. However,
there is also a valuable public need related to the freedom of academic researchers to formulate
hypotheses and weigh scientific options in putting together recommendations that are included in
their publications. The public would not be served by interrupting the scientific process by
subjecting reviews, rough drafts, and other preliminary information to public scrutiny. These are
the building blocks of the final product of University investigators' research and writing process,
which includes the evaluation of existing scientific studies and information as well as
independent reviews by other individuals. Of course, in evaluating the utility or accuracy of the
information in scientifically based publications, anyone is free to review the literature, consult
with experts, and weigh the evidence in support of or against the conclusions in the publication.
You also requested "the science upon which the urban fertilizer management
recommendations in the state model ordinance are based." There is no particular document upon
which that science is based. The Public Records Act does not require the University to conduct
studies or to create documents in response to your request. In fact, Dr. Nell has already provided
extensive scientific information and references to you in response to your past requests for
information.
Your remaining requests relate to correspondence between Drs. Nell and Hochrnuth and
many other individuals and organizations. We are in the process of collecting that
correspondence and will contact you after we have completed the location and review of the
documents.  This correspondence is likely substantial, and we will provide an estimate of the
cost of reproducing it for you.
I understand that your requests have been included in more than one communication. If
there are documents that you have requested in addition to those that I have identified in this
letter, please do not hesitate to contact me with the additional documents that you request.
Senior University Counsel
PES/clt
