COMES NOW the Plaintiff, GLORIA EARLY, Individually and as Next-of-Kin and/or
Personal Representative of the Estate of Roy Early, deceased,                                ("EARLY") by and through her
undersigned  attorneys  and  files  this  Complaint  against  Defendants,  SHANDS TEACHING
HOPSITAL AND CLINICS, INC., ("SHANDS"), and UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA BOARD OF
TRUSTEES, ("UFBOT"), and respectfully states unto the Court the following:
GENERAL ALLEGATIONS
1. This is a cause of action for damages in excess of $15,000.00
2. At all material times, Plaintiff, EARLY, was a resident of the State of Florida.
3. At all material times, Defendant, SHANDS, was a Florida non-profit corporation and
hospital, licensed and doing business in Alachua County, Florida.
4.                                                                                           At all material times, Defendant, UFBOT, was a public body corporate, doing business in
Alachua County, Florida.
1
"2013 CA 003473" 3828815 Filed at Alachua County Clerk 07/18/13 10:10:47 AM EDT

5.                                                                                                All conditions precedent required for bringing and maintaining this action have been met.
COUNT I — MEDICAL NEGLIGENCE AS TO DEFENDANT SHANDS FOR
PHYSICIAN NEGLIGENCE AS EMPLOYEES
6.                                                                                                Plaintiff adopts and re-alleges the allegations in Paragraphs                               1-5 above as if fully set forth
herein.
7.                                                                                                In or about December,                                                                       2010 through January              12, 2011, Roy Early, now deceased, former
spouse of Plaintiff, GLORIA EARLY, was a patient at Shands UF, under the care and
treatment of Defendant, SHANDS, through its physician staff who were employees of
Defendant, SHANDS, including, but not limited to, Baldeep Wirk, M.D., Amy Cheatwood,
PA and A. Davis.
8.                                                                                                Defendant, SHANDS, through its physician staff who were employees of Defendant,
SHANDS, including, but not limited to, Baldeep Wirk, M.D., Amy Cheatwood, PA and A.
Davis, had a duty to provide reasonable and appropriate bone marrow/autologous stem cell
transplant care by, including, but not limited to, having determined that influenza PCR testing
was warranted in Roy Early, to refrain from the administration of high dose Melphalan
conditioning for autologous stem cell transplant until result of such testing was available.
9.                                                                                                Defendant,  SHANDS, through  its physician staff who were employees of Defendant,
SHANDS, including, but not limited to, Baldeep Wirk, M.D., Amy Cheatwood, PA and A.
Davis, breached the prevailing medical standard of care by, including, but not limited to,
proceeding with the administration of high dose Melphalan while awaiting result of pending
PCR influenza testing, which was ultimately positive for influenza.
10. As a direct and proximate result, Roy Early died on or about January                          12, 2011.  The
decedent's estate has and/or will suffer the damages cited under the Wrongful Death Act
including, but not necessarily limited to, the following: loss of prospective net accumulations
of the decedent's estate and medical and funeral expenses due to the decedent's death.
2

11. The surviving natural persons; including, but not necessarily limited to, Gloria Early, have
and/or will suffer damages cited under The Wrongful Death Act, including, but not limited to
the following:  loss of support and services of the decedent from the date of the injury to the
date of his death; future loss of support and services; loss of the amount of the decedent's
probable net income and replacement value of decedent's services; loss of decedent's
companionship, protection and instruction; mental pain and suffering and medical expenses
due to decedent's injury and death paid by them or some of them.
12. At all material times, physicians involved in the care and treatment of Roy Early at Shands
were employees of Defendant, SHANDS.
13. Defendant, SHANDS, is vicariously liable for the negligence of its physician staff who were
employees of Defendant, SHANDS, including, but not limited to, Baldeep Wirk, M.D., Amy
Cheatwood, PA and A. Davis, who rendered medical care and treatment to Roy Early while
he was under the medical care and treatment of Defendant, SHANDS.
14. Pursuant to Florida Statutes Section                                                               766.184   (2). Plaintiff filed a Petition For Extension of
Medical Malpractice Statute of Limitations in Alachua County, Florida on October 4, 2012.
15. Plaintiff notified Defendant, SHANDS, on or about March                                            8,        2013, by certified mail return
receipt requested of Plaintiffs intent to initiate litigation for medical negligence.  The notice
included a verified written medical expert opinion corroborating reasonable grounds to support
the claims.
16. The undersigned attorney certifies that a reasonable investigation has been made as permitted by
the circumstances to determine that grounds exist for a good faith belief that there has been
negligence in Defendant, SHANDS, and and/or its physicians, nurses, staff, employees,
agents, and/or apparent agents, care and treatment of Roy Early. This investigation gave rise to
a good faith belief that grounds exist for an action against Defendant, SHANDS, and/or its
physicians, nurses, staff, employees, agents, and/or apparent agents.
3

WHEREFORE, Plaintiff, GLORIA EARLY, individually and as Next-of-Kin and/or Personal
Representative of the Estate of Roy Early, deceased, demands judgment against Defendant, SHANDS,
for damages in an amount in excess of $15,000.00, together with costs incurred and attorneys fees if
applicable herein, and further demand a trial by jury on all issues so triable.
COUNT H — MEDICAL NEGLIGENCE AS TO DEFENDANT SHANDS (Non-Physicians)
17. Plaintiff adopts and re-alleges the allegations in Paragraphs                                      1-5 above as if fully set forth
herein.
18. On or about December, 2010 through January                                                         12, 2011, Roy Early, now deceased, former
spouse of Plaintiff, GLORIA EARLY, was a patient at Shands UF, under the care and
treatment of Defendant, SHANDS, through its nurses, non-physician, staff, employees,
agents and/or apparent agents.
19. Defendant, SHANDS, through its nurses, non-physician, staff, employees, agents and/or
apparent agents, had a duty to provide reasonable and appropriate bone marrow/autologous
stem cell transplant care by, including, but not limited to, having determined that influenza
PCR testing was warranted in Roy Early, to refrain from the administration of high dose
Melphalan conditioning for autologous stern cell transplant until result of such testing was
available.
20. Defendant, SHANDS, through its nurses, non-physician, staff, employees, agents and/or
apparent agents, breached the prevailing medical standard of care by, including, but not
limited to, proceeding with the administration of high dose Melphalan while awaiting result
of pending PCR influenza testing, which was ultimately positive for influenza.
21. As a direct and proximate result, Roy Early died on or about January                               12, 2011.  The
decedent's estate has and/or will suffer the damages cited under the Wrongful Death Act
including, but not necessarily limited to, the following: loss of prospective net accumulations
of the decedent's estate and medical and funeral expenses due to the decedent's death.
4

22.                                                                                                    The surviving natural persons; including, but not necessarily limited to, Gloria Early, have
and/or will suffer damages cited under The Wrongful Death Act, including, but not limited to
the following: loss of support and services of the decedent from the date of the injury to the
date of his death; future loss of support and services; loss of the amount of the decedent's
probably net income and replacement value of decedent's services; loss of decedent's
companionship, protection and instruction; mental pain and suffering and medical expenses
due to decedent's injury and death paid by them or some of them.
23.                                                                                                    At all  material times,  Defendant,  SHANDS, through  its nurses, non-physician, staff,
employees, agents and/or apparent agents, involved in the care and treatment of Roy Early
were employees, actual agents and/or apparent agents of Defendant, SHANDS.
24.                                                                                                    At all material times, Roy Early justifiably accepted treatment from Defendant, SHANDS,
through its nurses, non-physician, staff, employees, agents and/or apparent agents with the
reasonable belief that treatment was being rendered on behalf of Shands.
25.                                                                                                    Defendant, SHANDS, is vicariously liable for the negligence of Defendant, SHANDS,
through its nurses, non-physician, staff, employees, agents and/or apparent agents, who
rendered medical care and treatment to Roy Early while he was under the medical care and
treatment of Defendant, SHANDS.
26. Pursuant to Florida Statutes Section                                                               766.184                                                                                        (2), Plaintiff filed a Petition For Extension of
Medical Malpractice Statute of Limitations in Alachua County, Florida on October 4, 2012.
27. Plaintiff notified Defendant, SHANDS, on or about March                                            8,                                                                                             2013, by certified mail return
receipt requested of Plaintiff's intent to initiate litigation for medical negligence.  The notice
included a verified written medical expert opinion corroborating reasonable grounds to support
the claims.
28. The undersigned attorney certifies that a reasonable investigation has been made as permitted by
the circumstances to determine that grounds exist for a good faith belief that there has been
5

negligence in Defendant, SHANDS, through its nurses, non-physician, staff, employees,
agents and/or apparent agents. This investigation gave rise to a good faith belief that grounds
exist for an action against Defendant, SHANDS, through its nurses, non-physician, staff,
employees, agents and/or apparent agents.
WHEREFORE, Plaintiff, GLORIA EARLY, individually and as Next-of-Kin and/or Personal
Representative of the Estate of Roy Early, deceased, demands judgment against Defendant, SHANDS,
for damages in an amount in excess of $15,000.00, together with costs incurred and attorneys fees if
applicable herein, and further demand a trial by jury on all issues so triable.
